Campus Resources – Molecular, Cellular, and Integrative Physiology (MCIP)
Campus Resources
You are here:
Home
1
/
Resources
2
/
Campus Resources
UCLA has several resources available for students, faculty, and staff.  Below, you will find a compiled list of these resources with web links for more information about services.
General
Bruin Online​
Visit Bruin Online to access email accounts, web hosting, learn how to connect to campus networks, and for free software and support.
Campus Information & News
Campus directory, statistics, the weather at UCLA and more.
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Provides information on discrimination prevention at UCLA.
Faculty & Staff Resources
Faculty- and staff-specific tools, resources, and pages.
my.UCLA
Personalized web portal for the UCLA community.
Ombuds Services
Offers mediation and dispute resolution services for UCLA students, staff, and faculty on a confidential basis.
Technology Development Group
Formerly the
Office of Intellectual Property and Industry Sponsored Research,
the UCLA Technology Development Group provides guidance on appropriate methods for promoting and protecting intellectual property created at UCLA.
Title IX Office/Sexual Harassment Prevention
Provides individual consultations and information about campus policies regarding sexual harassment.
UCLA Police Department
Emergency information, prevention, education, reporting and crime statistics.  UCPD provides police services, but also alarm services, fingerprinting, lost & found, and EMS services (EMT jobs, classes, and ride-along).
Academic
Center for Accessible Education
Provides educational support services and programmatic access to students with permanent or temporary disabilities.
Extension
UCLA Extension offers a wide range of continuing higher education courses each quarter.
Graduate Division
Supports the academic endeavors of UCLA graduate students.  Including filing all paperwork for dissertation and graduation, travel scholarships, and other fellowships.
Graduate Student Resource Center
A resource, referral and information center for graduate and professional school students that offers advice and assistance in dealing with the challenges of graduate school, as well as a number of workshops and programs done in collaboration with campus partners.
Graduate Writing Center
Offers writing workshops, programs, and groups to build skills and become an effective writer in your field.
Libraries, Centers, & Institutes
Learn about our campus libraries and research centers.
Summer Sessions & Special Programs
Browse the Summer Session schedule and course listings.
International Students
Dashew Center for International Students & Scholars
Serves as a resource and learning center for the entire UCLA community to promote global connection, international understanding and cultural sensitivity.  Also assist with visa services.
International Scholars Resources
Overview of UCLA’s Dashew Center for International Students and Scholars.
International Student Support Program
A partnership between UCLA and Morneau Shepell.  The International Student Support Program provides confidential support to international students at no cost to them: 24/7 remote acculturation support and counseling from clinical advisors who speak their language and understand their culture as well as access to digital content which aims to support the well-being and retention of international students at UCLA.
Information on Immigration Executive Order (March 6, 2017)
Information for DACA students.
Career Exploration and Services
Business of Science Center
Offers opportunities to explore interests and skills in gaining a more entrepreneurial focused understanding of science careers.
Handshake
An extensive professional development website that offers insight and expertise on career preparation for graduate students and postdoctoral scholars. An essential source for events, workshops, and speakers geared towards the career development of graduate students and postdoctoral scholars across campus.
Career Center
Offers job listings, campus interviews, workshops, career fairs, and career counseling.
Career Center Preparation Toolkit
A guide for graduate students and postdoctoral scholars that provides both guidance about how to create a career road map and practical tools for getting jobs and building successful careers.
Career Hub
Offers professional development opportunities specifically for postdoctoral and graduate students.
My Individual Development Plan
An online career-planning tool to help students assess skills and interest, identify academic and career goals and develop a step-by-step plan to accomplish them.
Center for Education, Innovation & Learning in the Sciences (CEILS)
A collaborative community of instructors committed to advancing teaching excellence, assessment, diversity, and scholarship, resulting in the enhancement of student learning experiences in the Life and Physical Sciences. Activities designed to advance Ph.D. student teaching skills include the STEM Education Research Journal Club, Career Development resources, and the Teaching Assistant Training Initiative.
Lifestyle
Campus Security Officers
and Safety Escorts
Campus Security Officers provide walking escort services daily from dusk until 1:00 a.m. Dial (310) 794-WALK.
Housing (Off-Campus)
Information and resources for students living off campus, including listings.
Housing (On-Campus)
Information and resources for students living on campus.
Restaurants & Cafes at UCLA
On-campus cafe, coffee shop, and restaurant hours and locations.
Transportation
Information about parking, commuting to campus (carpool, vanpool, public transportation), bike-share program, and Bruin Bus system.
UCLA Store
Online shopping for apparel, textbooks, computer hardware and software.
Wellness
Behavioral wellness services, campus fitness, community-based support programs, and mindfulness programs.
Financial and Legal
Financial Wellness Program
Offers resources, workshops, and online courses in financial literacy and wellness.
Scholarship Resource Center
Provides scholarship information, resources, and support services to all UCLA students.
Student Legal Services
Provides legal counseling and assistance to all currently registered and enrolled UCLA students.
Tax Information – VITA (Volunteer Income Tax Assistance)
VITA at UCLA provides free federal and state income tax preparation assistance to low- to moderate-income, disabled, and elderly individuals in the Los Angeles community.
University Credit Union
On-campus credit union offering free checking, ATMs, student loans, and computer & car loans.
Parents and Caregivers
Early Care & Education
Operates child care centers serving the UCLA community.
Students with Dependents
Resources for parents, guardians, and caregiving students including support groups, workshops, social events, and assistance in navigating childcare and social services programs.
University Parents Nursery School
The nursery is a cooperative school for 2 to 5 year-old children of UCLA students, faculty, and staff.
612 Charles E. Young Drive East
Box 957246, 328 Hershey Hall
Los Angeles, CA 90095-7246
(t) (310) 825-3891
(f) (310) 206-7599
Information
Directory
Academic Calendar
Careers
Getting Around
Maps & Directions
Parking
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
Connect
Alumni
Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Families
Faculty
Staff
Media & Journalists
Resources
Login
Scroll to top