Medical Simulation Facility | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Facility
Rosenfeld Hall
The UCLA Simulation Center is a full-service healthcare training center located across the street from Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center at 700 Westwood Plaza. Previously known as Learning Resource Center (LRC), our building was recently renovated to become Rosenfeld Hall thanks to a
generous gift from Eugene and Maxine Rosenfeld
.
Rosenfeld Hall is the home of simulation training for UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine and UCLA Health, across all three levels of the building:
Level A
- Home of technology-based simulations, with five inpatient simulation rooms, four exam rooms, a classroom and an auditorium.
Level 1
- Home of Standardized Patient Program, with sixteen exam rooms, four simulation rooms, and a large flexible classroom.
Level 2
- Home of
Center for Advanced Surgical & Interventional Technology (CASIT)
, with a Research & Development lab and education spaces for surgical training.
Rosenfeld Hall expands the Sim Center's capacity to provide valuable experiential healthcare training to the DGSOM and UCLA Health community, with additional rooms for scenario-based training using standardized patient actors and computerized patient simulators, as well as dedicated spaces for procedural skills training sessions, conferences, and classes. The building holds regular courses and events for medical, nursing, and health sciences students, as well as residents, staff nurses, practicing physicians, and allied health & public health professionals.
Map of Rosenfeld Hall Facility
Rosenfeld Hall Floor Plan
Geffen Hall Sim Center Annex
In addition, the Sim Center has a dedicated space housed at Geffen Hall. The UCLA Simulation Center Annex in Geffen Hall Room 301 offers three multipurpose rooms for simulation education and procedural task training, as well as an innovative smart locker system for contactless rentals of task trainers and simulation equipment.
Our expanded educational facilities provide a low-risk immersive learning environment that allows learners to enhance their clinical abilities, gain proficiencies in the latest medical technologies, and build their interprofessional teamwork skills, with the goal of creating a safer, kinder, and more equitable healthcare system.
Map of Geffen Hall Room 301 Facility
Sim Center Annex Floor Plan
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login