Eugene and Maxine Rosenfeld | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Eugene & Maxine Rosenfeld
Eugene and Maxine Rosenfeld
Eugene and Maxine Rosenfeld have a long history of involvement at UCLA.
Gene, who holds a bachelor's of science degree in business administration from UCLA, has served as president and chairman of the board of The UCLA Foundation and is currently chairman of the Board of Visitors of the UCLA Anderson School of Management. Maxine sits on the Foundation's Board of Governors, the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA's Board of Visitors, and the Women & Philanthropy Board of Directors. Both have been long-time donors to the Chancellor's Associates.
When Gene and Maxine learned of the breakthroughs being made in the UCLA Simulation Center, they were quick to lend their support. This gift underwrites educational tools such as the human patient simulator, which has realistic physiological systems and can "talk" and interact with the learner. As a result of their generosity, they have had a tremendous impact on the future of healthcare training at UCLA.
As generous benefactors since 1978, the Rosenfelds established a scholarship fund that continues to assist UCLA undergraduates with serious financial needs and/or disabilities. Another significant gift established is the Maxine and Eugene Rosenfeld Endowed Chair in Computational Genetics, which bolsters the work of a renowned geneticist and expands applications in the field. In 1987, Eugene and Maxine committed funds toward the Anderson School's management education complex, naming the Maxine and Eugene Rosenfeld Library. It houses traditional and electronic collections and computing services. Utilizing the Anderson's wireless Internet connectivity, the Rosenfeld Library's electronic resources are available everywhere on campus.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login