Standardized Patient Program | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Standardized Patient Program
An overview of UCLA's Standardized Patient (SP) Program
Alert
For inquiries regarding the Standardized Patient Program:
UCLASPProgram@mednet.ucla.edu
About Our Standardized Patient (SP) Program
A Standardized Patient (SP) is a person who has been trained to portray the symptoms, personality traits, and other characteristics of a real patient, but in a way that is consistent with all other SPs portraying the same patient.
In their role as employees of the UCLA Simulation Center, SPs are used extensively in training medical students as well as nursing students, residents, clinical nurses, and even seasoned doctors.
Our SPs assume diverse roles, playing patients undergoing routine physical examinations as well as patients facing more complex medical situations including acute and chronic illnesses, life-threatening conditions, and end-of-life care. Learners engage with SPs in a variety of settings, under the guidance of experienced healthcare providers. This controlled environment allows learners to practice essential medical skills including clinical decision-making, empathy, rapport-building and other key components of effective patient communication. This leads to increased confidence and knowledge among the learners, thereby improving their ability to interact successfully with actual patients. This highly immersive learning experience is enriched by constructive debriefing and feedback from SPs, faculty and peers.
Standardized Patient Jobs
Learn about auditioning to become a Standardized Patient at UCLA where you can make a meaningful contribution to the future of healthcare.
Becoming an SP
Standardized Patient Requests
Educators may fill out a form to request SPs for scenario-based simulations and procedural task training.
Requesting an SP
Standardized Patient FAQ
Frequently Asked Questions about Standardized Patients and their important role in medical education at UCLA.
SP FAQ
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login