Administration | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Administration
The UCLA Administrative Fellowship Program, established in 2015, is a one to two-year, post-graduate, non-ACGME accredited training program. The fellowship aims to train highly qualified emergency physicians to become effective managers and leaders within clinical medicine. The program combines the benefits of working in and participating in the management of an internationally renowned, academic university hospital with a highly efficient community emergency department. Entry to the fellowship program is available only to physicians who have completed a four-year Emergency Medicine Residency program.
Institutions
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
The
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
(RRMC) ) is located at the southern end of the beautiful UCLA campus in Westwood. It is a state-of-the-art 520 bed academic medical center that offers a full range of medical and surgical services from primary to sub-specialty care. The one million-plus square foot, 10-story structure encompasses the operations of Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, the Stewart and Lynda Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital at UCLA and the Mattel Children's Hospital. UCLA is consistently rated in the top 10 medical centers in the country by US News and World Report. The 41-bed Emergency Department treats 52,000 patients per year and serves as a Level 1 Trauma center, as well as Comprehensive Stroke, STEMI, and Pediatric Critical Care center.
Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center
Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center
(SMMC) is a 265-bed full service community hospital. Located in beautiful Santa Monica, it serves as a center of excellence for orthopedic surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics, STEMI, and recently became a stroke center. The hospital became part of UCLA Health in 1995.
The ED is a busy, efficient community practice, serving 50,000 patients per year in a modern 22-bed facility.
Curriculum
Educational Objectives
To provide fellows with a foundation for developing into ED medical directors in any practice setting.
Experience
The UCLA Administrative Fellowship provides Fellows with the experience of managing an ED both at a world-class academic institution and at an urban, community ED.  The fellow will be exposed to management issues in the university setting as well as the private, multi-hospital physician group setting.
Fellows will get exposure to all aspects of ED management, including human resources, daily operations, data analytics, medical malpractice, contracting, hospital-wide interactions, and Quality Improvement. Mentors at each site will additionally help Fellows understand and navigate effective administrative techniques.
Professional Development
Fellows will have the opportunity to earn certification through UCLA in QI & Lean process improvements.
Fellows have the opportunity to obtain a Masters degree through UCLA in a discipline of choice.
Fellows may participate in UCLA Emergency Medicine residency program activities as well as faculty development programs.
Project
Each fellow will choose at least one administrative project to explore in-depth, with the guidance of the fellowship faculty.
Clinical
Fellows work 8 clinical shifts per month.
Fellows will work in a teaching setting at RRMC, supervising residents and medical students, and in a clinical setting, at SMMC.
Program Faculty
Lynne McCullough, MD:
Fellowship Program Director; Vice Chair of Operations; RRMC Medical Director; Clinical Informatics
Wally Ghurabi, DO:
Fellowship Assistant Program Director; VEP Board of Directors; SMMC Medical Director, UCLA Vice Chair
Gregory Hendey, MD:
Chair of UCLA Emergency Medicine
Judy Choe, DO:
Director of Quality
Medell Briggs-Malonson:
Chief of Health Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Stipends & Benefits
UCLA employee with health and retirement benefits
Annual salary of $100,000
Tuition support for Master's program
$2,000 computer allowance
$2,000 CME allowance
Four weeks of vacation
Apply
Interested applicants should send Curriculum Vitae, a Statement of Interest, and 2-3 Letters of Recommendations to:
Lynne McCullough, MD
Fellowship Program Director
lmccullough@mednet.ucla.edu
Nathalia Rodriguez
Fellowship Coordinator
Department of Emergency Medicine
924 Westwood Boulevard, Suite 300
Los Angeles, CA, 90024
nathaliaerodriguez@mednet.ucla.edu
Interviews will be granted to qualified applicants by invitation.
Applicant Requirements
Graduation from a 4-year ACGME accredited Emergency Medicine Residency training program or a 3-year program with at least one year of post-residency clinical experience or fellowship.
Eligible to obtain a California Medical License.
References available upon request.
Current Fellows
Faraz Khan, MD 2023-2024
Fellowship Alumni
Anna Yap, MD 2022-2023
B. Judy Choe, DO 2019-2021
Catherine Weaver, MD 2017-2018
Jennifer Roh, MD 2017-2018
Nicole Wojtal, MD 2015-2016
Christopher Belfour, MD 2014-2015
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health