IDHEAL | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
IDHEAL
The
UCLA Department of Emergency Medicine Section of International and Domestic Health Equity and Leadership
(IDHEAL)
(
http://www.idheal-ucla.org/
) and the
UCLA National Clinician Scholars Program (NCSP)
(
https://uclancsp.med.ucla.edu/
) are thrilled to announce a new collaborative fellowship for emergency physicians who wish to build a career dedicated to the promotion of health equity. Fellows will be part of the NCSP program and receive individualized mentorship from the IDHEAL faculty at Olive View-UCLA Medical Center and Harbor-UCLA Medical Center, two public safety-net hospitals under the umbrella of the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services. Successful candidates will have completed a 4-year emergency medicine residency program by the start of the fellowship and should demonstrate commitment to health equity research and implementation science.
For more information on the IDHEAL section, click
here
.
Mission
The
IDHEAL
Section's mission is to define and promote the role that academic emergency medicine can play in the promotion of health equity and the elimination of health disparities, locally, nationally and globally. To do so, we address the social, economic, environmental, and legal determinants of health by partnering with non-traditional allies, such as community based organizations, in order to understand and treat patients in the context of their communities and their lives. The section is an umbrella for collaboration of faculty and mentorship of trainees on projects within the realms of international emergency medicine, population health, migrant health, and social emergency medicine. We frame this as a section of “Health Equity” rather than a traditional section of International Emergency Medicine to emphasize the similarities between these disciplines and the common goal of health equity on a global scale.
Program Information
The
UCLA National Clinician Scholars Program (NCSP)
is committed to solving the most pressing societal challenges of our time—not least among them, addressing disparities and quality of care in an ever-changing healthcare landscape. Inspired by the Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program (CSP), which for more than 40 years fostered the development of physician leaders able to transform health and healthcare, the university proudly launched the new UCLA NCSP in 2016. This post-doctoral education program builds upon the CSP legacy, with early career physicians and post-doctoral nurses participating in an intensive, highly-customized, two-year program that places them in community settings to conduct priority research directly benefiting the health of Southern California residents.
To support the rigorous research expected of IDHEAL NCSP scholars in their second year, support is available through the
UCLA Clinical and Translational Science Institute TL1 Program
. TL1 trainees, mentored by a multidisciplinary faculty with experience in translational science, will learn to employ methods that leverage modern data systems and develop the skills and approaches needed to continuously improve healthcare and public systems, specifically the science of implementation and dissemination, and system science.
Institutions
Olive View-UCLA Medical Center
Olive View-UCLA Medical Center
is a public safety net hospital serving the two million residents living in the San Fernando Valley, located at the northern section of Los Angeles County. OV-UCLA is a major teaching affiliate of the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA with medical students, residents, and fellows spending a significant portion of their training at OV-UCLA. Residents of the UCLA Emergency Medicine residency program spend 50% of their training at OV-UCLA. The hospital has 377 beds, while the 25,000 square foot Emergency Department, which was built in 2011, has 51 beds. The ED census is roughly 60,000 patients per year. The majority of patients are working poor, immigrants, and/or primarily Spanish-speaking.
Harbor-UCLA Medical Center
Harbor-UCLA Medical Center
is crucial safety net hospital serving more than 700,000 residents in the South Bay of Los Angeles. Our high-volume, high-acuity Emergency Department sees approximately 90,000 annual patient visits from a largely underserved population. It is the only Level 1 Trauma Center, Pediatric Trauma Center, Pediatric Critical Medical Center, Disaster Resource Center, Stroke Center, Academic STEMI Receiving Center, and Nursing and Paramedic Training Center in the South Bay of Los Angeles. In addition to its essential role in patient care, Harbor-UCLA is a key teaching hospital for the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA and has a decades-long history of advancing medical science and care delivery
Program Faculty
Breena Taira, MD, MPH, CPH, FACEP
(OVMC): Program Director
Kabir Yadav, MD, MS, MSHS, FACEP
(Harbor-UCLA): Co-Program Director
Dennis Hsieh, MD, JD
(Harbor-UCLA)
Ross Donaldson, MD, MPH, CTropMed, FACEP
(Harbor-UCLA)
Aristides Orue, NP, MSN, FNP-C
(OVMC)
Mohsen Saidinejad, MD, MBA, FAAP, FACEP
(Harbor-UCLA)
Luis Lovato, MD, FACEP
(OVMC)
Tom Lee, MD, MS
(AVH/RRMC)
Adedamola Ogunniyi, MD
(Harbor-UCLA)
Richelle Cooper, MD, MSHS, FACEP
(RRMC)
Shamsher Samra, MD, MPhil
(Harbor-UCLA)
Apply
To apply, please visit:
https://uclancsp.med.ucla.edu/apply/
Applications open on May 1, 2023 and the deadline for applications is July 17, 2023.
Please contact us for further questions.
Nathalia Rodriguez
Fellowship Coordinator
Department of Emergency Medicine
1100  Glendon  Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, CA, 90024
nathaliaerodriguez@mednet.ucla.edu
Breena Taira, MD, MPH
Section Chair, IDHEAL
Olive View-UCLA Medical Center
Department of Emergency Medicine, North Annex
14445 Olive View Drive
Sylmar, CA 91342
(747) 210-3107
btaira@ucla.edu
Applicant Requirements
Graduation from a 4-year ACGME accredited Emergency Medicine Residency training program
Eligible to obtain a California Medical License.
Current Fellows
Hurnan Vongsachang, MD 2023-2025
Fellowship Alumni
Rose Diaz, MD 2021-2023
Jesus Torres, MD 2020-2022
Hannah Janeway, MD 2019-2021
Hemang Acharya, MD 2018-2020
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health