Research | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Research
The UCLA Emergency Medicine Research Fellowship Program, established in 1980, is a two year post-graduate training program. The fellowship harnesses the benefits of training at an internationally renowned university hospital and school of public health with exposure to the faculty and trainees of the National Clinician Scholars Program (formerly Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program), the Rand Graduate School in Santa Monica, and relevant departments on the UCLA main campus. This program provides an unusually diverse spectrum of research training. Entry to the fellowship program is available only to physicians who have completed an Emergency Medicine Residency.
Institutions
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
The
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
(RRMC) is located at the southern end of the beautiful UCLA campus in Westwood. It is a state-of-the-art 520 bed academic medical center that offers a full range of medical and surgical services from primary to sub-specialty care. The one million-plus square foot, 10-story structure encompasses the operations of Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, the Stewart and Lynda Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital at UCLA and the Mattel Children's Hospital. UCLA is consistently rated in the top 10 medical centers in the country by US News and World Report. The 41-bed Emergency Department treats 52,000 patients per year and serves as a Level 1 Trauma center, as well as Comprehensive Stroke, STEMI, and Pediatric Critical Care center.
Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center
Santa Monica-UCLA Medical Center
(SMMC) is a 265-bed full service community hospital. Located in beautiful Santa Monica, it serves as a center of excellence for orthopedic surgery, pediatrics, obstetrics, STEMI, and recently became a stroke center. The hospital became part of UCLA Health in 1995. The ED is a busy, efficient community practice, serving 50,000 patients per year in a modern 22-bed facility.
Curriculum
Educational Objectives
The UCLA Emergency Medicine Research Fellowship Program is designed to provide the research training and experience necessary to become an outstanding contributor and leader in academic emergency medicine. The primary goals of the program are training in:
Identification of appropriate areas of research activities,
Research methodology and experimental design,
Preparation of grant proposals, and
Scientific writing: preparation of abstracts for scientific meetings and manuscripts for peer review journal publication.
Experience
The research fellowship is designed to meet individual needs. The emergency medicine faculty are not involved in bench research. Their research topics include: health services research, medical informatics, infectious disease, neurosciences, pre-hospital and disaster medicine, sepsis, ARDS, clinical decision instruments, domestic violence, and research on the quality of the medical literature.
Weekly meeting with faculty mentor to discuss ongoing educational and research activities.
Monthly emergency medicine research meetings with EM research faculty and fellows.
Enrollment in the UCLA School of Public Health to pursue an MPH degree in epidemiology, health services research or other area per the candidate's interest. Enrollment in other UCLA graduate programs can be substituted.
Participation in the seminars and classes of the National Clinician Scholars Program.
Attending UCLA Emergency Medicine Grand Rounds and Journal Clubs.
Project
Fellows are expected to develop and complete a meaningful research project, present the results at national scientific meetings, prepare the results for publication in a peer-reviewed national journal and complete and submit an NIH Grant Application.
Research Activities
Fellows are expected to develop and complete a meaningful research project, present the results at national scientific meetings, prepare the results for publication in a peer-reviewed national journal and complete and submit an NIH Grant Application.
Clinical
Fellows work 8 clinical shifts per month.
Fellows will work in a teaching setting at UCLA supervising residents and students, and in a clinical setting at Santa Monica.
Program Faculty
David L. Schriger, MD, MPH
Fellowship Director
William Mower, MD, PhD
Richelle Cooper, MD, MSHS
Research Director
Greg Hendey, MD
David Talan, MD
Elizabeth Samuels, MD
Jesus Torres, MD
Rose Diaz, MD
Annette Dekker, MD
Stipends & Benefits
UCLA employee with health and retirement benefits
Annual salary of $100,000
Tuition support for Master's program
$2,000 computer allowance
$2,000 CME allowance
Four weeks of vacation
Apply
Interested applicants should send Curriculum Vitae to:
Nathalia Rodriguez
Fellowship Coordinator
Department of Emergency Medicine
924 Westwood Boulevard, Suite 300
Los Angeles, CA, 90024
nathaliaerodriguez@mednet.ucla.edu
David L. Schriger, MD, MPH
Fellowship Director
schriger@ucla.edu
Interviews will be granted to qualified applicants by invitation.
Applicant Requirements
Graduation from a ACGME accredited Emergency Medicine Residency training program.
Eligible to obtain a California Medical License.
References.
Fellowship Alumni
Annette Dekker, MD
, 2020-2022
Assistant Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Todd Schneberk, MD, MA
, 2016-2018
Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, USC
Samantha Kadera, MD, MPH
, 2013-2015
Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Daniel Rolston, MD, MS
, 2013-2015
Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine and Critical Care, Long Island Jewish Medical Center
Marc Probst, MD, MS
, 2012-2014
Assistant Professor, The Mount Sinai Hospital
Erin Wilkes, MD, MSHS
, 2011-2013
Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Christopher LeMaster, MD
, 2010-2012
The Permanente Medical Group
Malkeet Gupta, MD, MS
, 2006-2008
Assistant Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Partner, Antelope Valley Emergency Medicine Associates
Michael Menchine, MD, MPH
, 2004-2006
Vice Chair of Research and Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine, Los Angeles County - University of Southern California
Zachary Gray, MD, MPH
, 2004-2006
Staff Physician, Torrance Memorial Hospital, Torrance, California
Richard Byyny, MD, MSPH
, 2004-2006
Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine, University of Colorado Health Science Center, Denver, Colorado
Steven Wall, MD, MPH
, 2001-2003
Assistant Professor of Clinical Emergency Medicine, Assistant Professor, Department of Epidemiology & Population Health, Albert Einstein College of Medicine of Yeshiva University, Jacobi Medical Center, Bronx, NY
Frank Day, MD, MPH
, 1999-2001
Associate Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine, West Los Angles VA Medical Center, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Richelle J. Cooper, MD, MSHS
, 1998-2000
Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Thomas Lee, MD
, 1997-1999
Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Director, Antelope Valley Emergency Medicine Associates
Frederick J. Beddingfield, III, MD, PhD
, 1996-1999
Assistant Clinical Professor of Dermatology, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Medical Director, Skin Care Pharmaceuticals, Clinical Research and Development, Allergan, Inc.
Adjunct Staff, Health Sciences The RAND Corporation
Eric Salk, MD, MPH
, 1995-1997
Assistant Clinical Professor of Surgery/Emergency Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine
Medical Director of Emergency Services, The Charlotte Hungerford Hospital, Torrington, CT
Carolyn Sachs, MD, MPH
, 1994-1996
Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Knox Todd, MD, MPH
, 1993-1994
Professor and Department Chair, Department of Emergency Medicine, The University of Texas MD Anderson, Houston, TX
Scott Krishel, MD, MPH
, 1992-1994
Emergency Physician, Kaiser Permamente Hospital, San Diego, CA
William L. Mower, MD, PhD
, 1991-1993
Professor of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
David L. Schriger, MD, MPH
, 1988-1990
Professor and Vice Chair of Emergency Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Ira Gold, MD, MPH
, 1983-1986
Research Director, Illinois Masonic Medical Center, University of Illinois College of Medicine
Sherman Podolsky, MD
, 1982-1983
President, PhyAmerica Physician Services of Florida Inc.
Fred Einesman, MD
, 1981-1982
Emergency Physician, Cedars Sinai Medical Center
TV Producer
Edward Geehr, MD
, 1980-1981
Chief Medical Officer, LifeScript, Mission Viejo, CA
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health