Ultrasound | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Ultrasound
The UCLA-Affiliated Clinical Ultrasound Fellowship is a two-year fellowship open to graduates of four-year ACGME accredited Emergency Medicine residencies. One position is available each year.
The UCLA-Affiliated CUS offers a distinctive combination of county and quaternary care settings through FOUR unique sites. It affords its fellows the opportunity to work with ultrasound in a setting of limited resources for a medically underserved community, as well as the luxury of state-of-the-art technology and facilities to develop cutting edge ultrasound skills. The fellowship involves education and instruction in the development of an ultrasound program, research experience, and a variety of teaching opportunities at the hospitals and within the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA.
The mission of the Emergency Ultrasound Fellowship is to develop motivated emergency physicians into clinicians, educators and researchers with ultrasound expertise. Our major strengths are in advanced echocardiography, critical care, and medical education. Fellows lead bedside ultrasound sessions with emergency medicine and off-service residents, medical students, and attending physicians. In addition, there are opportunities to lecture on ultrasound topics at residency conferences, regional conferences, and abroad.
Please visit
www.uclaemultrasound.org
to learn more about our curriculum.
Institutions
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
The
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center
(RRMC) is located at the southern end of the beautiful UCLA campus in Westwood. It is a state-of-the-art 520 bed academic medical center that offers a full range of medical and surgical services from primary to sub-specialty care. The one million-plus square foot, 10-story structure encompasses the operations of Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, the Stewart and Lynda Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital at UCLA and the Mattel Children's Hospital. UCLA is consistently rated in the top 10 medical centers in the country by US News and World Report. The 41-bed Emergency Department treats 52,000 patients per year and serves as a Level 1 Trauma center, as well as Comprehensive Stroke, STEMI, and Pediatric Critical Care center.
Olive View-UCLA Medical Center
Olive View-UCLA Medical Center
is a public safety net hospital serving the two million residents living in the San Fernando Valley, located at the northern section of Los Angeles County. OV-UCLA is a major teaching affiliate of the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA with medical students, residents, and fellows spending a significant portion of their training at OV-UCLA. Residents of the UCLA Emergency Medicine residency program spend 50% of their training at OV-UCLA. The hospital has 377 beds, while the 25,000 square foot Emergency Department, which was built in 2011, has 51 beds. The ED census is roughly 60,000 patients per year. The majority of patients are working poor, immigrants, and/or primarily Spanish-speaking.
Harbor-UCLA Medical Center
Harbor-UCLA Medical Center
is crucial safety net hospital serving more than 700,000 residents in the South Bay of Los Angeles. Our high-volume, high-acuity Emergency Department sees approximately 90,000 annual patient visits from a largely underserved population. It is the only Level 1 Trauma Center, Pediatric Trauma Center, Pediatric Critical Medical Center, Disaster Resource Center, Stroke Center, Academic STEMI Receiving Center, and Nursing and Paramedic Training Center in the South Bay of Los Angeles. In addition to its essential role in patient care, Harbor-UCLA is a key teaching hospital for the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA and has a decades-long history of advancing medical science and care delivery.
West Los Angeles VA Medical Center
West LA VA Medical Center
(VAMC) is part of the Greater Los Angeles VA Healthcare System, and affiliated with UCLA.  The full service ED is staffed by full-time emergency physicians with UCLA faculty appointments, and provides supervision and medical education for UCLA residents of multiple specialties as well as medical students from the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA.
Curriculum
Educational Objectives
To prepare our fellows to become successful leaders in clinical emergency medicine ultrasonography by providing comprehensive training, academic mentorship, and abundant opportunities for faculty development in a variety of clinical settings, all supported by university (UCLA) resources. To uphold the highest standards of practice, education, and academic investigation in clinical ultrasonography for the betterment of our patients, trainees, and medical specialty.
Experience
UCLA-Affiliated Clinical Ultrasound Fellows:
Are academic faculty of two stellar Emergency Medicine residencies (Harbor-UCLA and UCLA Ronald Reagan/Olive View) and for the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA.
Learn from 7 core POCUS faculty, with a wide range of interests, experience, and ongoing projects.
Pursue a subsidized Masters program or advanced fellowship at UCLA (most commonly in research, medical education, public policy or public health).
Learn to become leaders in our subspecialty through practice (our scans affects clinical decisions and are loaded directly into PACS), teaching (including bedside, conferences/meetings, and simulation sessions), administration (e.g. weekly QA/QI, machine maintenance), program development (e.g. at the VA Hospital, or the TEE program at Harbor), and clinical investigation (of your choice!), while being mentored by national leaders in POCUS.
Clinical
Fellows work average of 8 clinical shifts per month (shifts 7-9 hours in duration).
Program Faculty
Core (all fellowship trained):
Y. Teresa Liu, MD:
Program Director
Zahir Basrai, MD:
APD of Wellness & Compliance
Alan Chiem, MD:
APD of Education
Timothy Jang, MD:
APD of Administration and Board Preparation
Jackie Shibata, MD:
APD of Research & Advanced Degree Engagement
Manpreet Singh, MD:
APD of Recruitment & Social Media
Dan Weingrow, DO:
APD of Quality Assurance & EMR
Supporting:
Kareem Agunbiade, MD:
US fellowship trained
Lilly Bellman, MD:
PEM & US fellowship trained
Jonathan Birnbaum, MD:
Practice pathway
Sheetal Khiyani, MD:
PEM & US fellowship trained
George Lim, MD:
US & Critical Care fellowship trained
Amir Tabibnia, MD:
US fellowship trained
Eleanor Oakley, MD:
US & Toxicology fellowship trained
Mike Peterson, MD:
US fellowship trained
Stipends & Benefits
UCLA employee with health (medical, dental, disability) and retirement benefits
Competitive annual salary
Subsidized support for Master's program
CME allowance
Four weeks of vacation
Apply
More information regarding the Fellowship, along with details about the application process, can be found on the
EUS Fellowship website
.
Please contact us for further questions.
Jackie Shibata, MD
Fellowship Director
jackieshibata@gmail.com
Nathalia Rodriguez
Fellowship Coordinator
Department of Emergency Medicine
924 Westwood Boulevard, Suite 300
Los Angeles, CA, 90024
nathaliaerodriguez@mednet.ucla.edu
Applicant Requirements
Graduation from a 4-year ACGME accredited Emergency Medicine Residency training program.
Eligible to obtain a California Medical License.
Current Fellows
Jeremy Shin, MD 2022-2024
Fellowship Alumni
Erica Kiemele-Giss, MD 2021-2023
Aubrey Ferguson, MD 2020-2022
Kareem Agunbiade, MD 2020-2021
Will White, MD 2019-2021 (PEM/US)
Amir Tabibnia, MD 2019-2020
Lilly Bellman, MD 2017-2020 (PEM/US)
Sheetal Khiyani-Bharadwaj, MD 2017-2020 (PEM/US)
Jackie Shibata, MD 2016-2018
Andrea Takemoto, MD 2017-2018
Caleb Canders, MD 2016-2017
George Lim, MD 2015-2016
Manpreet Singh, MD 2015-2016
Stephanie Tseeng, MD 2014-2015
Eleanor Oakley, MD 2013-2015
Pablo Aguilera, MD 2014-2015
Ricky Amii, MD 2013-2014
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health