JSIP Committee | Jifresse
Skip to main content
Joint Institute for Regional Earth System Science & Engineering
Search
JSIP Committee
Jonathan Jiang
Co-Chair
Dr. Jonathan H. Jiang is a Principal Scientist of the Engineering and Science Directorate at JPL. He serves as the Editor in Chief for Earth and Space Science Open Archive, Editor for the Journal of Earth and Space Science, and the President-elect of the AGU’s section for Global Environmental Change. Dr. Jiang has been twice awarded the NASA Exceptional Achievement Medals for his leadership and innovation in scientific research using NASA satellite observations. Most recently, he received the Edward Stone Award and the NASA Exceptional Scientific Achievement Medal for his outstanding scientific achievement and service to NASA missions.
Jonathan Jiang's Homepage
Rachel Storer
Co-Chair
Dr. Rachel Storer is an assistant researcher with JIFRESSE, located at JPL. She received a PhD in Atmospheric Science from Colorado State University in 2012. Her research interests center on questions about deep convective clouds, including dynamics, microphysics, and interaction with the environment. She also works to understand how we can better observe and model clouds in the future.
Rachel Storer’s Homepage
Bin Guan
Committee Member
Dr. Bin Guan is a UCLA Project Scientist affiliated with JPL. With a background in atmospheric and oceanic science, his research centers around high-impact weather and climate events and their interdisciplinary implications. He is currently serving on the American Meteorological Society’s (AMS) Committee on Climate Variability and Change, and the drafting committee for updating the AMS Statement on Weather Analysis and Forecasting.
Bin Guan’s Homepage
Yun Lin
Committee Member
Dr. Yun Lin is an assistant researcher with JIFRESSE, located at UCLA. He received a PhD in Atmospheric Science from Texas A&M University. His research interests center on the climatic effect of aerosols, particularly in its interactions with clouds and precipitation. He also works to understand the environmental effect of aerosol pollution.
Siyu Zhao
Committee Member
Dr. Siyu Zhao is a postdoctoral researcher in Department of Atmospheric and Oceanic Sciences at UCLA. He received a PhD in Atmospheric Science from Georgia Institute of Technology. His research interests center on atmospheric dynamics and climate variability, particularly in interactions among atmosphere, ocean, and land. He also works on seasonal forecasts of weather/climate variables using machine learning techniques.
4242 Young Hall
Tel: 310.794.9832
Fax: 310.794.9796
© 2016 UC Regents | Terms of Use