UCLA Simulation Center Directions and Parking | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Directions & Parking
Directions
Please contact us at
(310) 267-2114
for help locating the UCLA Simulation Center.
From LAX
: The Los Angeles International Airport (LAX) is the closest major airport to UCLA. Take the 405 North Freeway to the Wilshire Blvd East exit. Continue east on Wilshire for several blocks and make a left turn onto Westwood Blvd. Follow Westwood Blvd which becomes Westwood Plaza. The UCLA Simulation Center will be on your right in Rosenfeld Hall (700 Westwood Plaza), with our main offices located on the A Level of the building.
From Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center:
Rosenfeld Hall is across the street from Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center. Please enter the 1st Floor of the building through the glass doors on Westwood Plaza and use the elevator or stairs located straight ahead on your right passed the light well. Take the elevator down to access the A Level.
From Center for the Health Sciences (CHS):
Take the "G" elevator (located at the intersection of corridors 3 and 6) to the B level and turn right to exit the building. The entrance is across from you on the right. Enter through the glass doors to the 1st Floor. The stairs/elevator will be on your left to access the A Level.
From Parking Structure Lot 9:
Exit the structure south towards CHS/School of Public Health. Cross Charles E. Young Dr. and turn Right heading north. Turn Left at the corner of Westwood and Charles E. Young and Rosenfeld Hall will be on your left. Please enter the 1st Floor of the building through the glass doors on Westwood Plaza and use the elevator or stairs located straight ahead on your right passed the light well.
Parking
The daily parking rate at UCLA is $15/day. For more information on available campus parking lots, see the
UCLA Visitor Parking
website.
Valet:
Valet service is available directly across the street from the UCLA Simulation Center at the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center. The valet rate is the same price as self-parking and is the most convenient option.
Self-Park:
Please visit the parking kiosk on Westwood Plaza just north of Charles E. Young Dr. to buy a parking pass and for directions. The attendant can direct you to the closest available parking lot to 700 Westwood Plaza.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login