Request Tour of UCLA Simulation Center | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Tour Request
UCLA Simulation Center Tour Requests
Welcome to the UCLA Simulation Center's tour reservation system.
Alert
Please note: Tour reservations have resumed following the grand opening of Rosenfeld Hall in October 2023. Please contact us by email at
sim@mednet.ucla.edu
or call us at (310) 267-2114 for more information, or if you would like to volunteer as a tour guide.
Request a Tour of the UCLA Simulation Center
Tour Request Form
Thank you for your interest in touring the UCLA Simulation Center. Please visit the Tour Request Form link above to request a tour of our medical simulation facility.
The UCLA Simulation Center is housed primarily in the newly renovated Rosenfeld Hall (700 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA, 90024). For more information on Rosenfeld Hall and detailed floor plans of the building, see the
Facility
page.
We currently offer two types of tours. A General tour and a Business tour. We cannot guarantee that all tour requests will be accommodated and we reserve the right to decide what type of tour we will offer at your particular requested date. Due to regularly scheduled simulation programming, there may be some rooms that are unavailable to view during tours.
All minors, under the age of 18, must complete the liability waiver provided below. In addition, if you are touring with minors, you and each minor must complete the waiver.
School of Medicine Waiver for Minors
Please email us at
sim@mednet.ucla.edu
if you have questions related to tours that are not addressed in our tour request form.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login