CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara Elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences — The Civil Rights Project at UCLA
Personal tools
Skip to content.
|
Skip to navigation
Search Site
only in current section
Advanced Search…
Sections
Home
News
Events
Research
Legal Developments
Resources
About Us
Navigation
CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara Elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
You
are here:
Home
→
News
→
News and Announcements
→
2023 Site News
→
CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara Elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Info
CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara Elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
Date Published:
September 29, 2023
The Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles congratulates CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara for her election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in recognition of her life's work pursuing equal educational opportunity on behalf of immigrant students and families.
Related Documents
Announcement of Gándara AAAS Election
The Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos is proud to announce the election of CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences. The induction ceremonies take place September 29-30, 2023 in Cambridge, MA, where the AAAS headquarters are located.
The Academy is one of the oldest honorary societies in the United States and an independent research center
.
It
was founded in 1780 during the American Revolution by a group of 62 white men, including John Adams, Samuel Adams, John Hancock, James Bowdoin and other founders of the United States. Since then, membership has diversified. Professor Gándara joins a distinguished group that includes Astronomer Maria Mitchell, the first white woman elected in 1848, after discovering a new comet; Ralph Bunche, the first Black member elected in 1951, after winning the Nobel Peace Prize; and famed opera singer and civil rights pioneer, Marian Anderson, the first Black female member, who was elected in 1957. The Academy has grown to more than 14,500 members from a multitude of disciplines, professions and perspectives. The AAAS publishes the journal,
Daedalus
.
Patricia Gándara
is research professor and co-director of the Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles at UCLA. Gándara is an elected fellow of the American Educational Research Association (AERA) and the National Academy of Education.  She was presented the Medalla de Reconocimiento Alfonso Garcia Robles of the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de Mexico in 2019 for her work with immigrant students. In 2011 she was appointed to President Obama’s Commission on Educational Excellence for Hispanics. Recent publications include
The Bilingual Advantage: Language, Literacy, and the U.S. Labor Market
with Rebecca Callahan (2014); “The economic value of bilingualism in the United States,”
Bilingual Research Journal
, (2018); “The Students We Share:  Falling through the cracks on both sides of the US-Mexican border,”
Ethnic and Racial Studies
(2019), and
Schools under Siege:  the impact of immigration enforcement on educational equity
, with J. Ee, (2021).
Document Actions
Print this
The Civil Rights Project / Proyecto Derechos Civiles
8370 Math Sciences, Box 951521
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1521
crp@ucla.edu
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Accessibility
Site Map
Log in
Copyright © 2010 UC Regents