L.A. Stories | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
All Library News
L.A. Stories
Announcement
L.A. Stories
A new UCLA Library video series highlights the region's diverse communities, cultures and historical landmarks through the Library's collections.
Written by Library Staff
January 9, 2024
More Information
For decades, UCLA Library has documented the breadth of Los Angeles area history and culture. Traditional collection strengths include California, early photography, historical periodicals, maps, literature, the arts and fashion, the papers of outstanding civic figures, and the city's diverse communities.
Watch a selection of these collections come to life in our new series, L.A. Stories.
Documenting the History of Labor Movements in Los Angeles
L.A. recently gained attention as a hub of organized labor activity, 
but its culture of community-lead social change emerged long before 
2023's "Hot Labor Summer."
In the first installment of L.A. Stories,
Tobias Higbie
(opens in a new tab)
, UCLA 
Professor of History and Labor Studies, and Vivian Rothstein, retired 
Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy (LAANE) and UNITE HERE Local 11 
organizer, discuss labor movements in Los Angeles over the years and the
 role of UCLA Library in preserving this important history.
They reflect on the shifts in public 
and political support for workers' movements in Los Angeles, which have 
transformed from the hostile “open-shop” attitudes of the early 20th 
century to the present surge in labor action and negotiations to improve
 working conditions for Angelenos in a number of occupations.
Labor & Working Class History Collections
The collections at UCLA Library related to labor history in Los Angeles document and preserve the campaigns of a largely immigrant, low-wage workforce to establish higher wages and better working conditions. In partnership with the UCLA Labor Center,
Memory Work Los Angeles
(opens in a new tab)
highlights the history of progressive unionism in southern California 
and captures individual workers’ stories in their own words, including through
UNITE HERE Local 11 Oral Histories
(opens in a new tab)
.
Featured materials from UCLA Library Special Collections include records from
Los Angeles Alliance for a New Economy (LAANE)
(opens in a new tab)
,
UNITE HERE Local 11
(opens in a new tab)
and
Service Employees International Union
(opens in a new tab)
, as well as photographs from
Los Angeles Times Photographic Collection
(opens in a new tab)
and clips from the
KTLA Newsfilm Collection
(opens in a new tab)
at the UCLA Film & Television Archive, a division of UCLA Library.
Explore more collections
about
Digital Library Program
The Digital Library Program works across UCLA and with a range of partners to preserve and provide access to cultural heritage materials in support of UCLA’s teaching, research and service mission.
default
Film & Television Archive Collections
Learn about the moving image media holdings that are available for onsite research and how to make an appointment.
visit
UCLA Library Special Collections
Open to all, UCLA Library Special Collections (LSC) preserves, shares and promotes the Library's unique primary sources.
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use