About – UCLA College
The UCLA College of Letters and Science is the academic heart of UCLA, where the world’s brightest faculty and students work side by side to bring new knowledge to light and solve the urgent problems of our time for the benefit of all.
The College’s four academic divisions —
Humanities
,
Life Sciences
,
Physical Sciences
and
Social Sciences
— span traditional and emerging disciplines in the liberal arts and sciences. A fifth division,
Undergraduate Education
, serves as the campus driver of excellence and innovation in the undergraduate experience.
Taught by world-renowned faculty, the College’s undergraduate and graduate students go on to become business, government, community and academic leaders of California and the world.
Explore UCLA College Programs, Departments, Centers and Institutes
Facts and Figures
The UCLA College is home to:
• More than three-quarters of UCLA’s 32,000 undergraduate students
• Distinguished faculty: in the past decade alone, 32 faculty members have been elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences and 22 have been named Guggenheim Fellows
• More than 50 departments and programs, 100 undergraduate majors, 60 graduate degree programs and 40 Ph.D. programs
Divisions of the College
Humanities
In the
Division of Humanities
, we explore the rich human legacy of literature, philosophy, religion, languages and cultures, cultivating graduates who can respond with creativity and vision to today’s challenges.
Life Sciences
In the
Division of Life Sciences
, we are engaged in the intricate study of living systems in order to improve human health and preserve our planet.
Physical Sciences
In the
Division of Physical Sciences
, we work to solve some of science’s greatest mysteries, from the Earth’s core to the outer reaches of the universe, from the subatomic to the supermassive.
Social Sciences
In the
Division of Social Sciences
, we seek to understand and solve the pressing issues that affect our lives, engaging with Los Angeles in order to change the world.
Undergraduate Education
In the
Division of Undergraduate Education
, we enrich the student experience through small seminars, hands-on research, interdisciplinary minors, academic support, and learning opportunities outside the classroom.
Meet Our Leadership
Photography: Galván, Johnson, Stern and Valenzuela: Reed Hutchinson | García-Garibay: Alyssa Bierce
Adriana Galván
, Dean of Undergraduate Education;
Miguel García-Garibay
, Senior Dean of the College and Dean of Physical Sciences;
Tracy Johnson
, Dean of Life Sciences;
Alexandra Minna Stern
, Dean of Humanities;
Abel Valenzuela
, Interim Dean of Social Sciences
The five deans of the College lead their respective divisions and share responsibility for issues and functions across the entire College.
Click here to learn more about the deans.
Los Angeles, CA 90095
(310) 206-1953
UCLA College
About
Stories
Magazine
Commencement
Giving
Related Sites
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Corporate & Foundation Relations
Centennial Campaign
Senior Survey
Impact of Philanthropy
Connect
Alumni
Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Families
Faculty
Staff
Information
Careers
Directory
Academic Calendar
UCLA Newsroom
Media & Journalists
Parking & Transportation
Maps & Directions
Emergency
COVID-19
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Youtube
Scroll to top