Commencement – University of California, Los Angeles
College Commencement 2024
ANNOUNCEMENTS:
For information regarding
tickets
, please visit our ticketing section,
here.
Ticketing begins in May 2024.
GENERAL INFORMATION:
UCLA College Commencement and the College’s Academic Department Ceremonies are held from Friday, June 14 to Sunday, June 16, 2024. You will receive information about UCLA College Commencement in
MyUCLA Notices
.  Please keep your
email address
up to date in MyUCLA; this is where your tickets will be delivered. Also, check your spam/junk folders frequently, so that you don’t miss the messages with links to receive the tickets you order.
All ceremonies are reserved for graduating students who are eligible to participate.  You are eligible to participate in June Commencement events if:
You completed all degree requirements and graduated in Fall 2023 or Winter 2024; or
You are declared to graduate in Spring 2024 or Summer 2024.
A
Graduation Checklist
is available to explain the process of graduating from UCLA and participating in commencement.
As a College bachelor’s degree recipient, you will be invited to:
The College Commencement Ceremony
Friday, June 14, 2024
11:00 am, 3:00 pm, or 7:00 pm
Pauley Pavilion
Academic Department Ceremonies held at various locations across campus during Commencement Weekend. Information about those ceremonies will be available on the
campus commencement website
.
Explore several pages on this website to prepare for commencement.  Above, the June 2024 menu will lead you to
information about the ceremonies
, our
ticketing process
,
disability accommodation
, and our
FAQs
.
In the meantime, please be sure to
order your regalia
.  And make sure you’re following the
Graduation Checklist
.
Traffic Alert:
During Commencement Weekend, traffic around campus will be very heavy.  Graduates should make plans to be at the ceremony venue at the time indicated on your ticket.  Guests should be prepared to arrive at the ceremony venue at least one hour before the ceremony starts, to be certain they are not delayed by traffic or parking issues.
On June 14th, all three ceremonies will be
livestreamed
, and the links will be available on this page and on the campus’s main commencement page:
https://commencement.ucla.edu
.
Please note our
final planning checklist
, which has information about Friday, June 14, and the policies for what you can bring into Pauley.
Watch last year’s ceremony livestreams for 2023!
11:00 a.m. Ceremony
3:00 p.m. Ceremony
7:00 p.m. Ceremony
UCLA.edu
|
UCLA College
Facebook
Twitter
Linkedin
Instagram
Youtube
© Copyright 2024 UCLA -
Login
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Scroll to top