Leonard Kleinrock's Home Page
In the Press
Articles
Videos
External links
About
Awards
Profile
Publications
Books
Book Chapters
Journals and Conferences
Commitee Reports
Patents
Public Reports
Press Releases
White Papers
Tutorials
Presentations
Reviews
History
Twitter
Students
Leonard Kleinrock
Distinguished Professor
UCLA
Computer Science Department
3732G Boelter Hall
Los Angeles, California 90095
Phone (310) 825-2543
Fax (310) 825-7578
E-mail:
lk@cs.ucla.edu
Professor Leonard Kleinrock is Distinguished Professor of Computer Science at
UCLA
. He developed the mathematical theory of data networks, the technology underpinning the Internet, while a graduate student at
MIT
in the period from 1960-1962.  In that work, he also modeled the packetization of messages and solved for a key performance gain that packetization provides.  The birth of the Internet occurred in his UCLA laboratory (3420 Boelter Hall) when his Host computer became the first node of the Internet in September 1969 and it was from there that he directed the transmission of
the first message
to pass over the Internet on October 29, 1969.
Dr. Kleinrock received his
Ph.D.
from
MIT
in 1963. He has served as a Professor of Computer Science at the
University of California, Los Angeles
since then, serving as Chairman of the department from 1991-1995. He received his BEE degree from
CCNY
in 1957. and his MS degree from MIT in 1959. He is also the recipient of a number of Honorary Doctorates. He was the first President and Co-founder of Linkabit Corporation, the co-founder of Nomadix, Inc., and Founder and Chairman of TTI/Vanguard, an advanced technology forum organization. He has published over 250 papers and authored six books on a wide array of subjects, including packet switching networks, packet radio networks, local area networks, broadband networks, gigabit networks, nomadic computing, intelligent software agents, performance evaluation, and peer-to-peer networks. During his tenure at UCLA, Dr. Kleinrock has supervised the research for over 50 Ph.D. students and numerous M.S. students. These former students now form a core group of the world's most advanced networking experts.
Dr. Kleinrock is a member of the
National Academy of Engineering
, a member of the
American Academy of Arts and Sciences
, an
IEEE
fellow, an
ACM
fellow, an
INFORMS
fellow, an
IEC
fellow a
Guggenheim
fellow, and a founding member of the
Computer Science and Telecommunications Board
of the
National Research Council
. He is recipient of the 2007
National Medal of Science
, the
L.M. Ericsson Prize
, the
NAE Charles Stark Draper Prize
, the
Marconi International Fellowship Award
, the
Dan David Prize
, the
Okawa Prize
, the IEEE Internet Millennium Award, the
ORSA Lanchester Prize
, the A
CM SIGCOMM Award
, t
he NEC Computer and Communications Award
, the
Sigma Xi Monie A. Ferst Award
, the CCNY Townsend Harris Medal, the CCNY Electrical Engineering Award, the UCLA Medal, the UCLA Outstanding Faculty Member Award, the UCLA Distinguished Teaching Award, the UCLA Faculty Research Lecturer, the
INFORMS President's Award
, the ICC Prize Paper Award, the
IEEE Leonard G. Abraham Prize Paper Award
, and the
IEEE Harry M. Goode Award
.
Copyright 2009 Leonard Kleinrock.   All rights reserved
Last modified on Nov 22, 2021
Email:
lk@cs.ucla.edu