Med School | Dean | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Direct from the Dean
Let’s make an impact together
Collaboration and team science
Steven M. Dubinett, MD
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Associate Vice Chancellor for Research, UCLA
Biography
Welcome to the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA.
We are a collaborative community of diverse educators, students, researchers and healthcare providers.
Our doors first opened on September 20, 1951, with the commitment to our trainees, staff and faculty  to provide a hub of progress, discovery, and inspiration.
We are an academic medical center and share our campus with Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, UCLA Mattel Children’s Hospital, and the Stewart and Lynda Resnick Neuropsychiatric Hospital at UCLA as well as the schools of nursing, dentistry, public health, and engineering, and the entire UCLA campus. This positions us as a destination for comprehensive education, research, and patient care.
We are producing leaders in health and bioscience, advancing equity in healthcare and health education, optimizing health through community partnerships, and discovering life-changing treatments and diagnostics. We strive to advance the health of all of our communities.
The latest headlines detailing advancements in support of our mission to deliver leading-edge patient care, research, education, and community engagement are available to
read
.
Justice, equity, and diversity inclusion are DGSOM
core values
. We are committed to recruiting and retaining  students, trainees, staff, and faculty with diverse backgrounds, experiences, and new ideas. We strive to promote a culture that is guided by our
Cultural North Star
. I am pleased to serve as the dean and participate with our accomplished faculty, staff, trainees, and students.
I welcome your support and involvement in our community,
Steven Dubinett, MD
We are solving today’s scientific questions through innovative research that will lead to the medical textbook of tomorrow. DGSOM is designed to promote the creativity that brings new discoveries all the way to patient care.
Steve Dubinett, MD, Dean, DGSOM
Headlines
View All News Articles
Dr. Lucinda Leung named emerging leader by National Academy of Medicine
January 04, 2024
1 min read
Read the full article
Harnessing Research to Improve Sexual Healthcare Access
February 08, 2024
4 min read
From the Coroner’s Office to Med School: One Student’s Unique Journey
February 01, 2024
5 min read
Hypothyroidism vs Hyperthyroidism - What's The Difference?
January 30, 2024
9 min read
A Future Surgeon’s Multi-Faceted Approach to Healing
January 26, 2024
4 min read
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login