Opportunities | Jifresse
Skip to main content
Joint Institute for Regional Earth System Science & Engineering
Search
Opportunities
Assistant Researcher (JPF08789) | 08/23/23
Job Description
Qualifications
Basic qualifications (required at time of application):
Appointee must possess a recent doctorate degree, in atmospheric science, earth science, or related disciplines.
Previous training and experience in cloud microphysics, cloud-aerosol interactions, and remote sensing data analysis.
Extensive knowledge and expertise in data processing and analysis of large satellite data sets.
Excellent written and verbal communication skills
Application Requirements
Document requirements
• Curriculum Vitae - Your most recently updated C.V.
• Cover Letter
• Statement of Research
• Statement on Contributions to Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion - An EDI Statement describes a faculty candidate's past, present, and future (planned) contributions to equity, diversity, and inclusion. To learn more about how UCLA thinks about contributions to equity, diversity, and inclusion, please review our Sample Guidance for Candidates and related EDI Statement FAQ document.
Salary: $87,100 – $102,900
Jobsites: Los Angeles and Pasadena, CA
APPLY HERE:
https://recruit.apo.ucla.edu/JPF08789
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. UC Nondiscrimination & Affirmative Action Policy (http://policy.ucop.edu/doc/4000376/NondiscrimA?rmAct)
Please be advised that the final candidate recommended for hire into a critical (or otherwise designated) position will be required to successfully complete a background investigation. Any convictions will be evaluated to determine if they directly relate to the responsibilities and requirements of the position. Having a conviction history will not automatically disqualify an applicant from being considered for employment.
UCLA is a Tobacco-Free environment. For more information, please view the policy at Tobacco-Free Campus Policy
(
http://www.adminpolicies.ucla.edu/APP/Number/810
)
4242 Young Hall
Tel: 310.794.9832
Fax: 310.794.9796
© 2016 UC Regents | Terms of Use