Scholarships | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
[ Login / Register ]
0  items in cart
Toggle navigation
Scholarships
Students
Payment Methods
Payment Plan
Refunds & Transfers
Transcripts
Scholarships
Veteran's Assistance Benefits
Educational Accommodations
College Credit & CEUs
Tom W. Olofson Scholarship (Paramedic Program)
Tom W. Olofson was a successful business executive, investor, and philanthropist. Mr. Olofson took delight during his life in supporting a variety of philanthropic efforts, and in his memory, his family has established the first scholarship to award full course fees for the UCLA Paramedic Program. In addition to the full course fee scholarship, the Tom W. Olofson Scholarship awards a second student up to $2,000 toward course fees. For more information and to apply, please visit the
Tom W. Olofson Scholarship
page.
Marshall T. Morgan, MD Memorial Scholarship (Paramedic Program)
Established in memory of longtime UCLA emergency physician Marshall T. Morgan, this program provides two scholarships annually to students admitted to the UCLA Paramedic Education Program. The scholarship will award up to $3000 toward UCLA Paramedic course fees and materials. Application information will be sent to those eligible after acceptance into the UCLA Paramedic Program. Please see the
Marshall Morgan Scholarship page
for details.
Derrick Schiller Memorial Scholarship (Paramedic Program)
Derrick Schiller always dreamed of following in his father’s footsteps by becoming a firefighter-paramedic. He proudly served the community as an EMT while putting himself through the UCLA paramedic program and graduated in January 2017. Tragically, Derrick passed away later that year as a result of a motorcycle accident. To honor Derrick’s memory, his family established the Derrick Schiller Memorial Scholarship to support the education of UCLA Paramedic students who, like Derrick, come from families with members in the fire service or emergency medical services. For more information, and to apply for the scholarship, please visit the
Derrick Schiller Memorial Scholarship page
.
Ryan M. Sorek Memorial Scholarship (Paramedic Program)
Ryan Michael Sorek was a graduate of the 2002 UCLA Daniel Freeman Paramedic Program and a passionate and dedicated paramedic who saved many lives in his lifetime. Ryan tragically passed away on March 9, 2007, as a result of an on-duty exposure at the young age of 25. To honor Ryan's memory and to keep his drive and passion alive in the emergency medicine community, his family and friends have established the Ryan M. Sorek Memorial Scholarship to support the education of future students at the UCLA Center for Prehospital Care Paramedic Program. For more information and to apply for the scholarship, please visit the
Ryan M. Sorek Memorial Scholarship page
.
Bryant Gladney Paramedic Education Scholarship (Paramedic Program)
Bryant Gladney was an Assistant Chief of Training with the Boone County Fire Protection District, where he built one of the most sought after EMS education programs in Missouri. His passion was for medicine and for teaching, where he was able to impact thousands of EMT and Paramedic students. Chief Gladney lost his life in the line-of-duty in 2021. The Bryant Gladney Paramedic Education Scholarship is a $1,000 tuition scholarship offered to students who are currently enrolled in or starting a Paramedic program in the United States. These scholarships are awarded to students who display a strong passion for serving their community and who plan to pursue a life-long career in emergency medicine. Learn more about the Bryant Gladney Foundation, access the application and latest information by visiting
gladneyfoundation.org
and selecting “Scholarship”.
NAEMT Scholarships
For current NAEMT members:
NAEMT offers Active members a variety of scholarships to advance their education and careers.
First Responders (to become EMT-Basic): Up to $500 each. Offered twice a year.
EMT-Basic (to become an EMT-Paramedic): Up to $5000 each. Offered twice a year.
Paramedics (to advance education in the realm of EMS): Up to $2000 each. Offered twice a year.
NAEMT-Columbia Southern University Scholarship: Up to 60 credit hours toward an online degree program. Offered annually. Applications accepted July 30 to October 31.
To apply or learn more, login to the
Member Portal at naemt.org
and select "Scholarships."
For EMT students:
Scholarships are also available for those interested in starting an EMS career.
NAEMT Foundation scholarships: Up to $1000 each. Applications accepted March 1 to April 30.
Learn more about NAEMT Foundation scholarships.
NAEMT Diversity scholarships: Up to $1,250 each for tuition, fees and books.
Learn more about NAEMT Diversity scholarships.
Firehouse Subs Public Safety Foundation Scholarship Program (EMT & Paramedic Program)
Firehouse Subs Public Safety Foundation has established a scholarship program to assist students who plan to enroll in an EMT or Paramedic program. Applicants must be high school seniors or graduates, or current college undergraduates and plan to pursue a career as a first responder, firefighter, police officer, paramedic or EMT. If selected as a recipient, the student will receive a $5,000 award. This program is administered by Scholarship America®, the nation’s largest designer and manager of scholarships and other education support programs for corporations, foundations, associations, and individuals. Eligibility for individual programs is determined at the sole discretion of the sponsor, and eligible applications are reviewed by Scholarship America’s evaluation team. Awards are granted without regard to race, color, creed, religion, sexual orientation, gender, disability, or national origin. To learn more and apply,
please visit Firehouse Subs Scholarship website.
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms