Transcripts | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
[ Login / Register ]
0  items in cart
Toggle navigation
Transcripts
Students
Payment Methods
Payment Plan
Refunds & Transfers
Transcripts
Scholarships
Veteran's Assistance Benefits
Educational Accommodations
College Credit & CEUs
Course Completion Verification & Transcripts
To order your course completion verification for eligible programs UCLA Center For Prehospital Care programs, use the
Transcript Request Form
. The form includes information on how to complete and submit the form, types of transcripts available, and who to contact for questions. Please see the transcript request form for which programs are not eligible for academic transcripts and grade verifications.
Duplicate Completion Certificates
To request a duplicate EMT or Phlebotomy completion certificate
, please contact us by telephone at (310) 267-5959 or by email at
cpc@mednet.ucla.edu
. Please be advised there is a $25 duplicate certificate fee and payments made by credit/debit card are subject to a 2.75% processing fee, with a minimum fee of $3.00. A duplicate certificate will be mailed and electronic copy can be emailed within 5 business days, once payment has been received.
WLAC Transcripts
Students
who enrolled for college credit through WLAC can request their official WLAC transcripts by submitting an official request to WLAC. Visit the
WLAC website
for specific instructions on how to request and pay for WLAC transcripts
For the Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) course, the UCLA Paramedic Education Program (for courses since 2005), and for Paramedic Preparation courses (from 2016 onward) please visit the West Los Angeles College (WLAC)
transcript information page
for instructions on how to request and pay for WLAC transcripts. You may also contact WLAC by telephone at 310-287-4388 or by mail at Admissions and Records, Attn: Transcripts, West Los Angeles College, 9000 Overland Avenue, Culver City, CA 90230.
For college credit transcript for the Paramedic Preparation course prior to 2016, please visit the El Camino College website at
www.elcamino.edu
, or visit the Office of Admissions and Records at El Camino College, 16007 Crenshaw Blvd., Torrance, CA 90506.
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms