Connecting from Off-Campus | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Services & Resources
Connecting from Off-Campus
resource
Connecting from Off-Campus
Learn how to use a VPN or proxy server to access UCLA Library resources from off-campus.
More Information
How to Connect
Current students, faculty and staff can access Library subscription resources off campus. This can be done through our virtual private network (VPN) or proxy server. The proxy server and the VPN require a
UCLA Logon ID
and
multi-factor authentication (MFA) enrollment
. Please contact the
UCLA IT Support Center
if you have problems setting up either one.
Each of the off-campus access resources works differently:
Proxy Server
: A web browser setting that diverts users to a UCLA logon page whenever they access a site for which UCLA has a subscription.
VPN
: A program you can download and install. You will have access to Library materials once you log on with the VPN software.
MFA
: An additional layer of security for systems, such as Duo Mobile.
Students and Staff in Professional Schools
Students and staff at certain professional schools should use the following connection methods. These methods provide access to additional resources.
Mednet VPN
: Offers a software VPN (like the campus-wide one) and a WebVPN (login via browser window).
Users from Veterans Affairs West Los Angeles Medical Center need to use the VPN to access library resources from off-campus. The VA national network does not allow proxy access.
UCLA School of Law Remote Access Options
UCLA Anderson School of Management Proxy Server
Instructional Videos
Watch the four videos below to learn how to set up a VPN or proxy server.
Resources
VPN on Mac
Set up your computer for off-campus access to Library resources using a VPN on Mac.
Download VPN
Download VPN
VPN on Windows
Set up your computer for off-campus access to Library resources using a VPN on Windows.
Download VPN
Download VPN
Proxy on Mac
Set up your computer for off-campus access to Library resources using a proxy server with Safari on Mac.
Configure Proxy
Configure Proxy
VPN on Chromebook
Set up your computer for off-campus access to Library resources using a VPN on Chromebook.
Download VPN
Download VPN
Associated Topics
Wi-Fi Access
Learn how to connect to Wi-Fi in UCLA Library buildings and the rest of campus.
All Services and Resources
Have Further Questions?
We're here to help. Chat with a librarian 24/7, schedule a research consultation or email us your quick questions.
Contact us
Contact us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use