Course Reserves | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Services & Resources
Course Reserves
service
Course Reserves
Wondering how the Library can help provide access to your course materials? Check out our resources for students and instructors on how to request, manage and access course reserves.
More Information
default
For Students
Looking to access course reserves for your class? Click here to search our catalog's reserves collection.
default
For Instructors
Looking to put materials for your course on reserve? Click here to visit our step-by-step instructor guide to creating and managing course reserve requests.
About Reserves
Course reserves are library materials that an instructor has requested to be made accessible throughout the duration of their course. These materials have short loan periods (usually 2 hours) to allow a high volume of access.
Accessing Reserves
Bruin Learn:
Starting Winter Quarter 2024, most course reserve lists can be accessed directly through your Bruin Learn course site. To access course reserves via Bruin Learn, simply click on the
"Course Reading List"
tab on your course site's side navigation menu.
UC Library Search:
Items can be found in
UC Library Search
by searching the instructor name, department name or course number. If the item is digital, it can be accessed through UC Library Search on campus or with the
UCLA VPN
. If the item is available in print, its physical location will be listed.
In-person:
Print reserves can be accessed at the circulation desk of the item's respective library. These materials have a 2-hour loan period.
Digital Audio Reserves
Online audio assignments are restricted to students enrolled in eligible Music classes. Please refer questions regarding digital audio reserves to the Music Library at
music-circ@library.ucla.edu
.
Resources
Browsing UC Library Search for Reserves
Watch this short video to learn how to use our catalog to search for course reserves.
Associated Topics
Connecting from Off-Campus
Learn how to use a VPN or proxy server to access UCLA Library resources from off-campus.
All Services and Resources
Have Further Questions?
We're here to help. Chat with a librarian 24/7, schedule a research consultation or email us your quick questions.
Contact us
Contact us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use