Equipment Lending | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Services & Resources
Equipment Lending
service
Equipment Lending
The UCLA Library lends laptops and other technology equipment to the UCLA community.
More Information
About Laptops & Equipment
The UCLA Library lends a variety of equipment, including Chromebooks, laptops, iPads and small technology items. A physical BruinCard is needed at checkout to borrow CLICC devices and equipment. Loans are made in person only, and equipment availability varies by location. Check
individual locations
for hours;
there won't be any device/equipment check-outs 30 minutes before closing times.
At Powell Library and the Charles E. Young Research Library (YRL), equipment can be found in several places:
Lending desks on the first floor
Powell 140, CLICC Lending Desk, (310) 794-1018
Powell 145, CLICC Lab, (310) 206-0271
YRL 11360E, CLICC Lending Desk, (310) 267-5464
Automatic lending lockers (open outside of lending hours)
Powell 140 adjacent, Night Powell Reading Room
Cafe 451 adjacent, YRL first floor
At all other Library locations, equipment is available at the circulation desk. To see a list of available equipment, please visit
Device Availability
(opens in a new tab)
.
CLICC Late Fines and Replacement Fees Policy
Effective August 15, 2023, if you do not return your CLICC device or equipment (i.e., laptop, charger, etc) on time, the following fines and fees will apply:
Late Fine - $0.20 per minute per item
after any device or equipment is late (maximum $50).
Item Replacement Fee -
After 24 hours from the due date - in addition to the late fee at $0.20 per minute (or $12.00 per hour) - the item will be considered 'Lost' and an Item Replacement Fee will be charged.
If a device is returned damaged, the patron is subject to fines for fixing the damaged item or the cost to replace the item.
Charges will appear on the UCLA and Library accounts. Please note that the Library cannot provide IT support for lost devices. If you wish to contest your fines/fees, you may submit
a ticket to our online portal
(opens in a new tab)
or email
cliccfines@library.ucla.edu
(opens in a new tab)
.
Types of Equipment
Laptops & iPads
The Library lends Windows and Mac laptops, Chromebooks and iPads at Powell Library and YRL. Borrowing these devices requires a valid Bruincard. Our other locations lend Chromebooks. The loan period on these devices is one week, and they are eligible for one renewal.
All our laptops and iPads can access a variety of applications, including common browsers, Zoom and other general productivity applications. Users may install additional software if needed. We will wipe any user data on all laptops and iPads upon return.
Small Items
We lend a variety of small items from Powell Library and YRL. Borrowing these items requires a valid Bruincard. The loan period on small items is 6 hours, and they are eligible for one renewal. These items include:
Phone cables (iPhone and Android) and wall adapters
Laptop chargers (USB-C and Mac MagSafe)
Input/Output adaptors (VGA and HDMI)
Display cables (VGA and HDMI)
Calculators
Headsets
Expo markers
Portable power banks
Special Equipment
We lend presentation (projector) kits from the Powell CLICC Lab and the YRL CLICC Lending Desk. UCLA Patrons can self-reserve via the
library equipment catalog
(opens in a new tab)
up to 1 week in advance for up to a maximum of 3 days per week. Patrons must have a valid Bruincard upon pick up.
Kurzweil Software is available on all Mac desktops in the Powell CLICC Lab. Assistive technology accessories are available to check out from Powell CLICC Lab with a valid BruinCard. Please inquire at the CLICC Lab desk for more information on the equipment available and lending policies.
default
Device Availability
View current numbers of devices available at YRL and Powell Library, or contact other locations for availability.
default
Presentation Kits
Self-reserve presentation kits through the library equipment catalog.
visit
Locations & Hours
We are one Library with many physical locations. See a specific location for hours, services and contact information.
Equipment Renewals
All Chromebooks, MacBooks, Windows laptops and iPads from CLICC Lending stations are issued on a one-week loan. Patrons can renew devices ONCE (online, in person or over the phone) before the due date AND time for a maximum loan period of 2 weeks. To maximize the loan period, patrons must renew the morning of the initial due date and time. At the end of the renewal period, devices must be returned to the Library for security/performance updates and to avoid lost and/or late fines. If you have issues renewing a device online, please
contact CLICC.
Ex: Joe Bruin checks out a device on 02/13/2024; the initial due date is 02/20/2024. The morning of 02/20/2024, Joe Bruin renews online to extend his due date another week. 02/27/2024 is the new and final due date.
Disclaimer: Renewing before the morning of the initial due date will not maximize the two-week loan period. Instead, it will extend the due date seven days from the day it was renewed.
Ex: Joe Bruin checks out a device on 02/13/2024; the initial due date is 02/20/2024. On the morning of 02/15/2024, Joe Bruin renewed online to extend his due date another week. 02/22/2024 is the new and final due date.
How to Renew Online:
In
UC Library Search
(opens in a new tab)
, click "My Library Account" in the top right corner and log in. Access and renew your items by clicking on your name in the top right corner and selecting "My Loans" in the drop-down menu. Ensure to:
Look at the date AND time your equipment is due
Click ‘Renew’ for both device and charger, if applicable.
Renewal Problems:
If you cannot
renew items online
due to restrictions on your account, you may call any CLICC location during business hours to renew CLICC devices and equipment over the phone. Renewals will not be processed online or over the phone if attempted after your initial due date and time.
Instructors and teaching assistants who need long-term device loans should contact their departments. Instructors who want to assign projects using technology should
contact CLICC
.
help
Borrow, Renew, Return
UCLA Library holds a vast collection of physical items accessible to both UCLA and non-UCLA users, ranging from books to laptops.
about
Fines and Fees for Borrowed Materials
Learn about Library fines and fees, including charges for replacements, lost or damaged items and overdue materials.
Additional Resources
default
Getting Started Guide
Details on how to use our equipment.
default
Available Software
A list of software and tools available using our Virtual Desktop.
Have Further Questions?
We're here to help. Chat with a librarian 24/7, schedule a research consultation or email us your quick questions.
Contact us
Contact us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use