Research Consultations | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Services & Resources
Research Consultations
service
Research Consultations
We can help at every stage of the research process. Schedule a consultation or stop by a help desk!
More Information
Schedule a Consultation
Have a research question? We can help you with everything from defining a research topic to developing search strategies.
default
Schedule an Online Consultation
Meet with a library specialist over Zoom.
default
Schedule an In-Person Consultation
Meet with a library specialist at one of our campus libraries.
Research Help Desks
Drop by our in-person Research Help Desks to learn about strategies and tools you can use in your research. See the location pages below for desk hours.
visit
Powell Library
The main undergraduate library on campus, Powell Library serves as a place for inquiry, creativity and community.
visit
Charles E. Young Research Library
Named for UCLA's longest-serving chancellor, the Research Library houses research-level collections in a variety of humanities and social science fields.
visit
Arts Library
The Arts Library is home to a comprehensive collection of materials in the fields of architecture, architectural history, art, art history, design, fashion and costume, film, television, photography, theater and allied disciplines.
visit
Music Library
The Music Library provides resources for music research, performance and study that span all music genres.
Additional Research Support
help
Scholarly Communication Services
Explore resources from UCLA Library to help you understand copyright, open access and other questions you may have about publishing your research.
help
Data Services
The Data Science Center provides support in data, mapping and geographic information systems (GIS).
about
Find a Subject Specialist
Contact a librarian with expertise in your subject area for personalized research help and support.
Associated Topics
Research Help
We're here to help! Library staff can support your research journey with a variety of services, tools and resources.
Teaching Support
The Library provides a variety of services to assist instructors in inspiring student learning, research and success. Let us know how we can help you!
All Services and Resources
Have Further Questions?
We're here to help. Chat with a librarian 24/7, schedule a research consultation or email us your quick questions.
Contact us
Contact us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use