Thinking Globally – UCLA College
Magazine
THINKING GLOBALLY
AT HOME AND AROUND THE WORLD, BRUINS ARE LEARNING TO MAKE A DIFFERENCE
By Lucy Berbeo | Art by Brave the Woods
Whether visiting another country for the ﬁrst time or gaining wide-ranging perspectives on campus, UCLA’s undergraduate students in all majors are receiving a truly global education. For many, this experience proves a turning point in their academic and future lives.
Each year, students can choose from approximately 180 study abroad programs oﬀered through UCLA’s
International Education Oﬃce
, which also counsels participants on academic, cultural and ﬁnancial issues. Options span more than 40 countries and include faculty-led summer courses with UCLA Travel Study, hands-on work opportunities with the UCLA Global Internship Program and traditional immersion at partner universities in the UC Education Abroad Program.
“Through study abroad, our students learn not only about the world but about themselves — their passions, skills and abilities,” says Adriana Galván, dean of the UCLA Division of Undergraduate Education. “They are future leaders in their ﬁelds, and the study abroad experience is often a ﬁrst step on that journey.”
Here are some stories of the entire world becoming the backdrop for a Bruin education.
READ MORE
UCLA College Magazine
2023 Edition
SHARE
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Share by Mail
CAPE TOWN, SOUTH AFRICA
KIMIA MOHSENI
Hometown:
Tehran, Iran
Major:
Pre-med psychobiology
Study Abroad Path:
UC Education Abroad Program
After losing my grandmother, I decided to pursue a career in medicine. My grandmother passed a year after being diagnosed with cancer, but I saw how hard the medical team tried to help her, and at the very least, they were able to prolong her life and reduce her pain greatly. Because of that, I had the chance to spend more time with her. That’s the main reason I’m pursuing medicine: I want to be able to give people a second chance when life does not, or at the very least, ease their pain.
In Cape Town, I interned at a nonproﬁt that educates young people about preventing STIs, HIV and teen pregnancy. The kids in our township didn’t learn about these things in school — we were their main source of knowledge. But we struggled with attendance, so one day, I decided to plan a fun event with snacks and a movie to encourage the kids to come to our center. We expected only 30, but we had over 100 students that day! I was so happy to help educate them as well as create a memorable event.
Learning how cultural issues can aﬀect health was important to me; in my career and life, I want to approach people of all backgrounds and cultures with respect. I also enjoyed learning about the country’s history and seeing some of its natural beauty on weekly hikes with my South African friends.
I believe when we are placed in a new environment, we face challenges that can make us stronger and wiser. My experience in South Africa helped me learn new skills, increase my self-conﬁdence and become a better version of myself overall.
HO CHI MINH CITY, VIETNAM
BLADAM GOMEZ
Hometown:
Oxnard, California
Majors:
Pre-law sociology | Public affairs
Study Abroad Path:
UCLA Global Internship Program
My goal is to become an attorney, so I’m exploring diﬀerent areas of study to decide what kind of law I’ll ultimately pursue. I chose this internship program because I wanted to see how workplaces can diﬀer culturally in other parts of the world, and because I had never traveled outside North America. With the rise in technology and globalization, I think it’s more important than ever to be exposed to other cultures and develop intercultural respect and understanding.
In Ho Chi Minh City, I interned for an international corporate law ﬁrm, helping with investigations; I also learned about new legal areas, including intellectual property. On one of our cases, a client was interested in opening a business in either Australia or in Vietnam, and my job was to help eﬀectively persuade them to choose Vietnam. It felt meaningful working to boost investment in the economy of a country that has been overlooked by businesses in the past.
Some of my favorite memories are trying pho for the ﬁrst time in Vietnam — the best pho I’ve ever tasted — and traveling to Halong Bay, a UNESCO World Heritage Site. I also enjoyed meeting a lot of new people from diﬀerent parts of the world.
Through this experience, I gained more conﬁdence that I want to pursue law — and I discovered that traveling is a passion of mine! For anyone considering study abroad, don’t be afraid to step out of your comfort zone. I never thought I would be so far away from home, and now traveling is something I truly love.
NANTES, FRANCE
CATHERINE CHARLES
Hometown:
Chapel Hill, North Carolina
Majors:
Cognitive Science | European languages and transcultural studies with French and Francophone
Study Abroad Path:
UCLA Travel Study
My love of French started in middle school, when I did a Belgian exchange program and was motivated to become ﬂuent. I added cognitive science as a second major because I love its interdisciplinary nature, with concentrations in psychology and computer science; this major has also sparked my interest in coding and application development.
Given that climate change is one of today’s most pressing issues, I was inspired to visit Nantes, a city known as a green capital of Europe. I learned that we can take amazing aspects from one culture and adopt them into our own — for example, many of Nantes’ sustainability eﬀorts would be easily applicable here in Los Angeles. I enjoyed our day trip to the salt marshes in the nearby medieval town of Guerande, where we saw the biodiversity up close and observed the ancient practice of salt harvesting.
We learned about Nantes’ history as well: at the height of the transatlantic slave trade, the city was a major slave port, a role it acknowledges today with the Memorial to the Abolition of Slavery. The memorial’s interior was designed to resemble that of a slave ship, and as you enter, you can see the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and the word “freedom” written in over 40 diﬀerent languages.
Language study allows you to build cross-cultural relationships, which are especially important in the rapidly changing cultural landscapes in the U.S. and abroad. I hope to continue to build such relationships here at UCLA and across other communities in the future.
PARIS, FRANCE
ANTWAN ADAMS
Hometown:
San Francisco, California
Majors:
Political science | Communication
Study Abroad Path:
UCLA Travel Study
Coming from a multicultural family with French roots, and having fallen in love with the French language in high school, I had always dreamed of going to Paris. By studying abroad, I hoped to improve my French language skills as well as push myself to adapt and be part of a world vastly different from the one I was used to.
My time in Paris was amazing — I thought I would feel intimidated traveling to another country on my own, but I underestimated myself. I made so many new friends, including fellow students from the UC system and other schools as well as French locals. I also learned to put my phone down and live my life in the moment — going to galleries and museums, having picnics every day, exploring the city or even just reading on a park bench were some of the things I hardly ever did in America, but that are hallmarks of French culture.
Academically, my time in the program amplified my goals to become fluent in French; professionally, it pushed me to seek out careers based in Paris. As a student with a focus on international relations, the study abroad experience aligned perfectly with my aspirations to one day work in the United Nations and in the political sphere in an effort to promote and improve global relations and tackle issues that affect us all as humans.
The biggest piece of advice I have for any Bruin considering study abroad is to have an open mind and to not be afraid to take a risk. It’s important to have a game plan, prepare yourself and map out your options, but don’t let your fears stop you — regardless of where you go, you are bound to have an incredible experience.
GRANADA, SPAIN
NAOMI HAMMONDS
Hometown:
Las Vegas, Nevada
Major:
Psychobiology, with minors in cognitive science and entrepreneurship
Study Abroad Path:
UCLA Travel Study
As I am pursuing a career in medicine, I want to provide the best form of care to a larger body of people. By speaking Spanish, the second most spoken language in the U.S., I hope to aid in minimizing a disparity that currently exists in medicine. I knew by going to Spain I would be pushed out of my comfort zone, but I welcomed the challenge and ended up learning so much in just six weeks.
Before traveling, I read an article about Americans being some of the worst behaved travelers across the world. This is because in general, when Americans decide to travel, we fail to educate ourselves before arriving at the foreign destination. This program taught me to do my research before traveling and recognize the space I will be occupying when I am abroad.
I truly believe everyone has a story comprised of their culture, traditions and experiences. A substantial amount of people believe learning should only be looked at from a traditional schooling standpoint; I challenge that idea by believing some of the most important knowledge is gained by learning about and connecting with others, and in this program I feel I did just that.
Making friends with students in the program and people in Spain was the best gift — I’ll never forget that in our last week abroad, my friends and I decided to revisit some of our favorite places and restaurants. We took group photos, exchanged social media and simply enjoyed the small moments.
I believe a lot of students worry about financials when it comes to studying abroad. I recommend starting early in looking at the various scholarships and resources provided by the International Education Office at UCLA, which allowed me to fully fund my trip.
BUENOS AIRES, ARGENTINA
ANTHONY RECINOS
Hometown:
Costa Mesa/Riverside, California
Major:
Spanish
Study Abroad Path:
UCLA Travel Study
My decision to go to Argentina came very suddenly — I was going over graduation requirements with my counselor and saw that I still had a small number of upper division units to complete. On a whim, I decided to top off my college experience by studying abroad. I earned a scholarship as well, which was super helpful in getting me to take that step.
The program, “Taking it to the Streets: Community Service, Social Culture, Human Rights and Tango in Literature, Music and Film,” turned out to be one of the best experiences of my time as a student. The Argentine people are politically engaged and passionate — anyone you talk to will discuss politics with you, and on our first day in the country there was a political protest at one of our destinations. This was in 2016, an American election year, so whenever I disclosed that I was from the U.S., the locals would ask how I felt about the American presidential candidates at that time.
Although I am Latino and speak Spanish, I was surprised at how Argentines and I share a language but are vastly different culturally and in many other ways. Some of my favorite moments included visiting a ranch and learning about gauchos (the cowboys of Argentina), learning to dance tango (Argentines love their tango — you see it everywhere!) and riding the subway. My favorite, though, was visiting Iguaçu Falls, an enormous set of waterfalls on the border of Argentina and Brazil — they are absolutely unreal and make you feel small.
The experience as a whole was life-changing — I feel like Argentina taught me the true meaning of community and being there for your neighbor. I would encourage Bruins to make the effort to study abroad if at all possible, and to do so with an open heart and mind.
ACROSS FIELDS OF STUDY, REGIONS AND CULTURES
UCLA College faculty, staﬀ, students, alumni and friends are fulﬁlling UCLA’s mission to better our global society. Join us in exploring initiatives and destination points along this shared journey to advance education, research and public service.
1. LIFELONG LEARNING OPPORTUNITIES
Through UCLA Alumni Travel, Bruins can continue gaining new global perspectives by choosing from tours to Alaska, Peru, Thailand, Costa Rica, the Galápagos Islands and more, where they can learn about each destination’s culture, history and local life.
2. FIELD RESEARCH IN THE SIERRA NEVADA
Undergraduates in the UCLA Department of Earth, Planetary, and Space Sciences travel to the remote White Mountain Research Center in the Sierra Nevada, known worldwide as an unmatched site for earth science education, to learn field geology with Distinguished Professor An Yin in the department’s summer field program.
3. INDIGENOUS LANGUAGES OF THE AMERICAS
The UCLA Department of Spanish and Portuguese offers courses in Quechua, an indigenous language spoken by millions of people across the Andes. Learners gain deeper cultural knowledge through creative projects including translation, filmmaking, gastronomy, writing poetry, campus events and more.
4. DIVERSITY IN HIGHER EDUCATION RESEARCH COLLOQUIUM
Representatives from UCLA, Vrije Universiteit in the Netherlands and the University of the Free State in South Africa gather annually to advance social justice in higher education. Abel Valenzuela, interim dean of social sciences, and Charles Alexander, associate vice provost for student diversity, lead the effort at UCLA.
5. SCIENTIFIC RESEARCH UNDER THE SEA
Tina Treude, UCLA professor of marine geomicrobiology, conducts seagoing expeditions around the world, from the Arctic Ocean to the South Pacific. Students wishing to follow in her footsteps can start by collecting oceanic samples aboard the UCLA Zodiac, a Bruin research vessel.
6. KOMAR SHIDELER CENTENNIAL SCHOLARS STUDY ABROAD SCHOLARSHIP
Established in 2019 through the generosity of Ross Shideler and Kathleen Komar, and with matching funds from the UCLA chancellor’s office, this award has made it possible for UCLA College undergraduates to study abroad in Denmark, France, Italy, South Africa, South Korea and Spain over the past two years.
7. PATHWAYS TO EGYPTOLOGY
With Howard University, the UCLA Department of Near Eastern Languages and Cultures launched a “Pathway to a Ph.D.” pipeline program, co-led by chair and professor Kara Cooney and academic administrator Jonathan Winnerman, to increase representation of Black students in ancient Egyptian, North African and Western Asian studies.
8. THE CONGO BASIN INSTITUTE
The Congo Basin Institute, a joint initiative of the International Institute of Tropical Agriculture and UCLA, advances conservation and human development in Central Africa. Scientists including founding director Thomas Smith and senior research fellow Elsa Ordway seek solutions to the interconnected challenges facing the world’s forested regions.
9. CLIMATE RESEARCH IN ANTARCTICA
Marilyn Raphael, professor of geography and director of the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability, and Aradhna Tripati, professor, founder and director of the Center for Diverse Leadership in Science, are leading scientists and educators who have each conducted on-the-ground climate research on the Earth’s southernmost continent.
10. SOUTHEAST ASIAN STUDIES
Within the Southeast Asian Studies major, launched in 2021 in the UCLA Department of Asian Languages and Cultures, students can concentrate in Filipino, Indonesian, Thai or Vietnamese language studies and gain cultural knowledge through coursework spanning the humanities, life sciences and social sciences.
11. JAPAN PAST & PRESENT
UCLA’s Yanai Initiative for Globalizing Japanese Humanities and Waseda University in Tokyo are developing this new digital hub for interdisciplinary, international research in the Japanese humanities. The project benefits and facilitates communication among scholars around the world who work in this field.
12. THE DIVERSITY PROJECT
The Diversity Project, run in partnership with UCLA ecology and evolutionary biology professors Paul Barber and Peggy Fong with HBCU-UC and National Science Foundation support, aims to increase participation of underrepresented students in marine biology and conservation. Participants travel to the island of Mo’orea to explore marine science.
PRITZKER EMERGING ENVIRONMENTAL GENIUS AWARD
Funded as part of a $20-million gift to UCLA from the Anthony and Jeanne Pritzker Family Foundation, this $100,000 annual award is given through the UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability to innovative young champions for the environment.
2022
Dysmus Kisilu
|  Kenya
Entrepreneur whose business, Solar Freeze, protects the environment and supports small-scale farmers
2021
Farwiza Farhan
|  Indonesia
Founder of Forest, Nature & Environment Aceh, an Acehnese NGO striving to protect the Leuser Ecosystem in Sumatra
2020
Clara Pratte
|  Flagstaff, Az.
Navajo sustainable business advocate who co-founded a company, Navajo Power, to benefit local communities on tribal lands
2019
Hindou Oumarou Ibrahim
|  Chad
Indigenous rights advocate and coordinator of the Association of Peul Women and Autochthonous Peoples of Chad
2018
Miranda Wang
|  Menlo Park, Ca.
Co-founder/CEO of Novoloop (fka BioCellection), an invention that upcycles plastic waste to create new materials
2017
Dan Hammer
|  Berkeley, Ca.
Co-founder of a nonprofit organization, The Earth Genome, that uses environmental data to transform decision making
READ MORE
UCLA College Magazine
2023 Edition
SHARE
Share on Facebook
Share on Twitter
Share on LinkedIn
Share by Mail
Los Angeles, CA 90095
(310) 206-1953
UCLA College
About
Stories
Magazine
Commencement
Giving
Related Sites
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Corporate & Foundation Relations
Centennial Campaign
Senior Survey
Impact of Philanthropy
Connect
Alumni
Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Families
Faculty
Staff
Information
Careers
Directory
Academic Calendar
UCLA Newsroom
Media & Journalists
Parking & Transportation
Maps & Directions
Emergency
COVID-19
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Instagram
Youtube
Scroll to top