Athletic Championships & Medals | Official Website | UCLAs |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Athletic Championships & Medals
UCLA’s collegiate sports championship history stands out as one of the most impressive of any university in the nation. We proudly hold 121 NCAA team championships, an accomplishment that speaks to our commitment to excellence.
Our student athletes consistently perform at an elite level, in their sports, studies and public service. It's this well-rounded approach that creates champions on the field and in the community. Our students, alumni and fans from all over rally around Bruin pride.
270
Olympic Medals
120+
Professional Athletes
121
NCAA Championships
A Legacy That Inspires Destiny
Beyond graduation day, and far from campus, Bruins continue to redefine the possible. John Wooden’s teachings have built a legacy that our athletic program has carried on ever since Coach’s arrival in 1949. He taught that true success is not found in the score at the end of the game. He preached preparation: that you be at your best when your best is required. He pushed student athletes to become better teammates and, more importantly, better people by upholding a code of honesty, integrity and loyalty. Coach Wooden’s “Pyramid of Success” also led to four undefeated seasons and 10 national championships — more than any other coach in college basketball history.
From Jackie Robinson, Troy Aikman and Kareem Abdul-Jabbar to Ann Meyers Drysdale and Jackie Joyner-Kersee, UCLA alumni are icons, record breakers, award winners, world champions and game changers in that same mold. We’re the only university with a No. 1 overall pick in almost every major league draft and the only university whose student athletes have won the Heisman Trophy, the Wooden Award and the Golden Spikes Award. This tradition of excellence not only sets a standard of success for future athletes, it is a testament to what is expected of future generations at UCLA.
Related
UCLA Athletics
UCLA Athletics Hall of Fame
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept