Learn More About UCLA Awards and Honors Recipients | UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Awards & Honors
Among our students, faculty and alumni you will find some of the most recognized and decorated individuals in almost every field and arena.
We are hundreds of recipients of the Guggenheim, Sloan and other leading fellowship grants and awards. We are winners of the Fields Medal and the A.M. Turing Award. We are Bruins.
16
Nobel Laureates
15
MacArthur Fellows
11
National Medal of Science Winners
3
Pulitzer Prize Winners, faculty
UCLA is also is the alma mater of Oscar, Emmy, Tony and Golden Globes winners like Francis Ford Coppola, Alexander Payne, John Williams, Tim Robbins and more than 20 others. This winning legacy inspires current and future Bruins to leave their own mark on the world.
Awards and honors exist to recognize exceptional academic performance and extracurricular activity. They are conferred at all levels of the university system. UCLA scholars thrive in an environment of intellectual freedom and creativity. For their bold explorations and inspired collaborations, the faculty, alumni, postdocs and trustees have received top honors nationwide and internationally.
Find out more about how Bruins are achieving excellence in their fields:
Faculty Honors
Alumni & Student Honors
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept