Meet the Renowned Members of Our Leadership Team | UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Leadership
To serve a university as far-reaching and dynamic as UCLA we have assembled a passionate team of leaders. They ensure UCLA continues to positively impact Los Angeles, the nation and the world.
Below you’ll find a list of top leadership, as well as links to administrative policies and organization information.
Chancellor and Executive Vice Chancellor/Provost
The chancellor of UCLA shapes the vision and strategic plan for the campus, and grows and diversifies revenue streams in support of the university’s mission.
The chancellor manages UCLA’s $7.5–billion budget and its more than 43,000 students, 4,300 faculty and 42,000 employees. The chancellor also plays a vital external role, serving as a thought leader and working with colleagues around the world to address challenges and opportunities both at UCLA and in public higher education.
Gene Block
Chancellor
Darnell Hunt
Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Office of the Chancellor
Yolanda J. Gorman
Senior Advisor to the Chancellor and Chief of Staff
Emily Rose
Assistant Provost and Chief of Staff to the Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost
Vice Chancellors
Vice-Chancellors are principal academic and administrative officers of the University. He or she leads the University's Council, the General Board of the Faculties and the Finance Committee of the University.
Michael J. Beck
Administrative Vice Chancellor
Rhea Turteltaub
Vice Chancellor, External Affairs
Allison Baird-James
Interim Vice Chancellor and Chief Financial Officer
John Mazziotta
Vice Chancellor, Health Sciences
Ina Bryant
Interim Vice Chancellor, Legal Affairs
Roger Wakimoto
Vice Chancellor, Research
Mary Osako
Vice Chancellor, Strategic Communications
Monroe Gorden Jr.
Vice Chancellor, Student Affairs
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor, Academic Personnel
Vice Provosts
Vice-Provost’s lead and implement key academic initiatives across all faculties. They also provide strategic advice and recommendations on academic concerns that may affect the university.
Mitchell Chang
Interim Vice Provost , Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
David K. Yoo
Vice Provost, Institute of American Cultures
C. Cindy Fan
Vice Provost, International Studies and Global Engagement
Erin Sanders O’Leary
Vice Provost, Teaching and Learning
Deans of the College
Deans of the College are academic leaders who are responsible for all aspects of a school's academic, programmatic, managerial, and fiscal programs. Deans are responsible for evaluating instruction, monitoring academic integrity, conferring degrees, and recruiting, admitting and advising students in their academic studies
Miguel A. García-Garibay
Senior Dean and Dean, Division of Physical Sciences
Alexandra Minna Stern
Dean, Division of Humanities
Tracy L. Johnson
Dean, Division of Life Sciences
Abel Valenzuela Jr.
Interim Dean, Division of Social Sciences
Adriana Galván
Dean of Undergraduate Education
Deans and University Librarian
Lionel Popkin
Interim Dean, School of the Arts and Architecture
Paul H. Krebsbach
Dean, School of Dentistry
Christina Christie
Dean, School of Education & Information Studies
Ah-Hyung “Alissa” Park
Ronald and Valerie Sugar Dean, Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science
Michael E. Waterstone
Dean, School of Law
Antonio E. Bernardo
Dean, Anderson School of Management
Steven Dubinett
Dean, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Eileen Strempel
Dean, The Herb Alpert School of Music
Lin Zhan
Dean, School of Nursing
Anastasia Loukaitou-Sideris
Interim Dean, Luskin School of Public Affairs
Ronald Brookmeyer
Dean, Fielding School of Public Health
Brian Kite
Dean, School of Theater, Film and Television
Eric Bullard
Dean, School of Continuing Education and UCLA Extension
Susan Ettner
Dean, Graduate Education
Virginia Steel
University Librarian
Related
Administrative Policies
Organization Chart (PDF)
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept