National and Global Rankings | How UCLA Measures Up | UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Rankings
UCLA performs well in all of the national and international rankings of public and private universities, including the most widely known list published by
U.S. News & World Report
. Below, you’ll find an overview of some of the more significant and well-known national and international rankings.
National Rankings
#1
Public University
U.S. News & World Report, 2023
This year, UCLA joins UC Berkeley as the nation’s No. 1 public university, ranking 20th among all national universities in the
U.S. News & World Report Best Colleges
rankings. The
U.S. News & World Report
rankings, despite their popularity, tell only part of the story. They place more emphasis on factors that tend to favor private universities, such as endowment size, rate of alumni giving and student-faculty ratios. Nevertheless, they can be a useful tool that focuses largely on factors related to undergraduate education.
#7
Best Colleges for Veterans Among National Universities
U.S. News & World Report, 2023
Global Rankings
#9
World Reputation Ranking
Times Higher Education, 2020
UCLA ranked 9th out of 100 universities in the
Times Higher Education
World Reputation Rankings. Distinct from the annual World University Rankings, these rankings are derived solely from the opinions of senior, published academics from around the globe.
#13
Global Ranking
U.S. News & World Report, 2022
U.S. News
introduced a new global ranking of universities in 2014. The methodology for this ranking is very different from the publication’s U.S. ranking system. It gives much more weight to academic research and reputation, as well as graduate and professional school quality.
#13
Academic Ranking of World Universities
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, 2022
More than 1,200 institutions are evaluated in this ranking, which is based heavily on faculty publications and citations, as well as the number of alumni and faculty who have won Nobel Prizes.
#15
World University Rankings
Times Higher Education, 2021
UCLA was 15th overall among the top 1,102 universities in the world in the respected
Times Higher Education
World University Rankings. The rankings rely on performance indicators such as the quality of teaching, research and the international mix of staff and students.
Other Rankings
#6
Best Value University
Forbes Magazine, 2022
In 2022 (the most recent ranking),
Forbes
evaluates colleges and universities based on alumni earnings, net price, net student debt, school quality, timely graduation and the number of Pell Grant recipients.
Forbes
revised its methodology in 2018 to put more emphasis on the survey’s three financial factors — earnings, price and debt — and the publication switched to net price (which takes into account the impact of students’ financial aid and the costs of room and board) instead of list price.
#9
Top American Research Universities
Center for Measuring University Performance, 2019
In 2019 (the most recent ranking), the center placed UCLA among the nation’s top research universities — both public and private. This ranking focuses on nine key measures of university research performance, including competitively awarded research grants and contracts, faculty membership in the National Academies, faculty awards, the number of doctorates awarded and other factors. UCLA was ranked in the top 25 among all research universities in seven of these measures, including:
7th in the nation in total research expenditures
8th in the nation in faculty awards
14th in the nation in national academy memberships
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept