BSAS Cost Sharing Program | Ergonomics
Skip to Main Content
Ergonomics
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Services
BSAS Cost Sharing Program
The goal of the Be Smart About Safety (BSAS) Cost Sharing Program is to reduce workers' compensation and other liability claim costs. Funds are awarded to UCLA campus departments to offset a portion of the financial impact of implementing recommended safety and ergonomic changes. Funds are not awarded to general operating supplies or personal protective equipment (PPE) as required by law. Departments engaged in a workplace accommodation or workers' compensation claim should contact
Ergonomics
to discuss specific needs.
Eligibility
Applicants must meet the following requirements:
Be a full-time UCLA or UCLA Health employee served by Campus Ergonomics.
Assigned to a job classification that requires the use of computer or laboratory equipment.
Complete an
ergonomic evaluation
, or ergonomics lab, or receive an equipment recommendation from an Ergonomics Specialist.
Department must maintain an updated Injury and Illness Prevention Plan (IIPP) with UCLA Environment Health & Safety (EH&S).
Recommended equipment eligible for Cost Sharing typically includes:
Chairs
Lab Stools
Keyboard Trays
Monitor Arms
Height-Adjustable Tables
Pipettes
Low-cost and individual use items are typically not awarded Cost Sharing. Examples:
Footrests
Palm or Wrist Rests
Mousepads
Keyboards
Mice
How to Receive Cost Sharing Funds
Step 1: Purchase And Pay for the Recommended Equipment.
Approval of recommended equipment is at the discretion of the employee's department. Refer to departmental purchasing procedures, and
UCLA Policies 740/741
for more information about obtaining goods and services such as furniture, and low-value orders. Departments are responsible for processing purchase orders (PO's), delivery, installation, and disposal of all equipment.
Step 2: Submit the Application Along with All Supporting Documents
Fill out a
Cost Sharing Application
and attach the supporting documents. Email completed application to costsharing@ergonomics.ucla.edu. Applications for PO's expensed during the fiscal year 2023-24 will be accepted until May 18, 2024.
NOTE
: Funds may get exhausted prior to this deadline. In those instances, applications are prioritized on a first come first serve basis, and any pending proposals will be considered if additional funds become available.
Step 3: Process Non-Payroll Expenditure Adjustment Request (NPEAR).
Approved applications will be notified via email to proceed with processing an NPEAR for the award amount. NPEAR processors will be provided the amount, justification, and full accounting unit (FAU), and are responsible for transferring the approved expense portion to the BSAS account. Awards must be transferred by June 15th of the fiscal year in which the application was submitted. Late financial processing will result in a loss of the award. Cost Sharing funds are not issued to departments through checks or recharge. An exception is made for Associated Students UCLA.
Program Details
Cost Sharing can only be awarded to purchase orders expensed within the current fiscal year. Funds cannot be transferred across fiscal years.
Example 1:
A purchase order generated during the current fiscal year (FY A/B) is carried forward to the next fiscal year (FY B/C). Applicant must submit during FY B/C, and use the FY B/C cost sharing application.
Example 2:
A purchase order generated during FY A/B is applied to FY A/B, but the application is submitted after the FY A/B Cost Sharing deadline. Late applications will be considered on a first come first serve bases pending available funds and must be completed within the Fiscal Close Rules for FY A/B. PO's expensed during FY A/B cannot be Cost Shared to FY B/C.
New Cost Sharing formulas and award amounts are determined each fiscal year. The current formula and award amounts can be found on the current application. Exceptions to the formula are made on a case-by-case basis. Department managers requesting an exception to the fund limit should email
costsharing@ergonomics.ucla.edu
UCLA Ergonomics asks that equipment remains with an employee in the event of a department transfer. Equipment transfer costs are determined by the involved departments. Applications and supporting documents are available for reference for the three most recent fiscal years. Older records may be available, email
costsharing@ergonomics.ucla.edu
for more information.
Related Links
Cost Sharing Application
Wilshire Center, 10920 Wilshire Blvd. Ste. 860
Los Angeles, CA 90024
Ergonomics Lab, 10920 Wilshire Blvd. Ste. 150
Los Angeles, CA 90024
310-794-6948 |
contact@ergonomics.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use