Frequently Asked Questions – UCLA Program in Computing
Is there food or drink allowed in the PIC lab?
Absolutely not. Read the signs around you!
How do I get a PIC Lab account?
If you are enrolled in a PIC class you will have one automatically created for you. If you are a Math major you have to talk to your department to get an account enabled. Your username is your UCLA Logon ID (the name that comes before the @ucla.edu in your e-mail address), and the default password is your nine digit student ID.
When does my account expire?
Your PIC account will be deleted by the second week of the following quarter. If you are enrolled in a course that uses the PIC Lab, your account will be retained. If you have a Math account, your account expires at the end of the school year. As a precaution to account resets, we strongly recommend you to transfer your important files by the first week of the following quarter, regardless whether your account is retained or not.
What do I do if I forget my password?
You will need to go to the Bugs office to reset it. The office is located in MS 6121 and is open M-F from 10 a.m. to 12 p.m. and from 2 p.m. to 4 p.m. Remember to bring a valid photo ID.
How do I change my Windows password?
Once you are logged in, press Ctrl+Alt+Del. Click Change Password on the window that appears.
How do I set up a UNIX account?
Follow this link
Setting up your PIC/Linux Email Account
How much help can Lab Assistants give me?
We can’t do your code for you, but we can help you through some compile errors, and answer general questions about coding. Feel free to ask us, and we’ll tell you if you’re asking too much.
I can’t select a printer when I try to print. What do I do?
Open the Start Menu and click Printers and Faxes. On the sidebar, click Add a Printer. Click Next three times, then click Find Now. You should see four printers pop up. Select one and click OK. Printer 1 is behind the front desk, and Printer 2 is in front. DS stands for double sided. Click Next then Finish.
This weekend is a holiday weekend. Are you open?
Unfortunately, we are not. We are closed on both Sunday and either Monday or Friday on three day weekends.  The
Lab Calendar
lists the holiday closures for the given quarter.
Follow this link
How to Post to the PIC Lab Reservation Calendar?
2300 Murphy Hall - Box 951438 - Los Angeles, CA 90095-1438 © 2018
Scroll to top