Accreditation | Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Accreditation
Mission Statement
Program Educational Objectives
Program Constituencies
Student
Outcomes
The electrical engineering program is accredited by the Engineering Accreditation Commission of
ABET
,
www.abet.org
. The accredited
curriculum provides an excellent background for either graduate study or employment. The education and research activities in the department are strongly aligned with the department’s mission and program educational objectives.
Mission Statement
In partnership with its constituencies, the mission of the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at UCLA is:
To produce highly-qualified, motivated and well-rounded graduates possessing fundamental knowledge of Electrical Engineering and providing leadership and service to California, the Nation, and the World.
To pursue innovative research and create new technologies in Electrical Engineering and related disciplines to serve the needs of industry, government, society, and the scientific community by expanding the body of knowledge in the field.
To develop constructive partnerships with industrial and government agencies.
To achieve visibility of Electrical Engineering by active participation in conferences and in technical and community activities.
To publish enduring and seminal scientific articles and books.
Program Educational Objectives
Undergraduate education in the UCLA Electrical and Computer Engineering Department provides:
Fundamental knowledge in mathematics, physical sciences, and Electrical engineering.
Opportunities to specialize in specific areas of interest or career aspirations.
Intensive training in problem solving, laboratory skills, and design skills.
A well-rounded education that includes communication skills, the ability to function well on an interdisciplinary and multi-cultural team, an appreciation for ethical behavior, and the ability to engage in lifelong learning.
This education is meant to prepare our students to thrive and to lead. It also prepares them to achieve our two Program Educational Objectives (PEOs):
Successful Careers
(PEO#1): Graduates of the program will have successful technical or professional careers.
Lifelong Learning
(PEO#2): Graduates of the program will continue to learn and to adapt in a world of constantly evolving technology.
Program Constituencies
The Program Educational Objectives are determined and evaluated through a regular consultation and examination process that involves four core constituents: Students, Alumni, Industry, and Faculty.
Student input is obtained through a standing departmental Student Advisory Committee consisting of representatives from several student organizations, student representation in regular faculty meetings, annual departmental Town Hall meetings, exit interviews with graduating students, student evaluation forms, and individual faculty-student advisee interaction.
Alumni input is obtained through a standing Departmental Advisory Board including alumni representatives, surveys with department alumni, and exit surveys with graduating students.
Industry input is obtained through surveys with industry participants at the annual departmental Research Symposium, surveys with department alumni, surveys with participants in the department’s Industry Affiliate Program, and employer satisfaction surveys.
Faculty input is obtained through a standing ABET departmental committee, regular faculty meetings, annual departmental retreats, and the departmental courses and curriculum committee. Input from other engineering faculty in the School of Engineering and Applied Science is obtained through the Faculty Executive Committee.
In addition, in order to facilitate the participation of the constituencies in the formulation and evaluation of the Program Educational Objectives, and in order to solicit further input and feedback, these objectives are publicized on the Department’s web page and in the catalog of courses for the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science.
Student Outcomes
Students graduating from the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at UCLA will be expected and prepared to exercise the skills and abilities (a) through (n) listed in the table of Student Outcomes below. The table also indicates how the Student Outcomes contribute to the Program Educational Objectives.
a. Ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering.
b. Ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data.
c. Ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.
d. Ability to function on multi-disciplinary teams.
e. Ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems.
f. Understanding of professional and ethical responsibility.
g. Ability to communicate effectively.
h. Broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.
i. Recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning.
j. Knowledge of contemporary issues.
k. Ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.
l. Knowledge of probability and statistics, including applications to electrical engineering.
m. Knowledge of mathematics through differential and integral calculus, and basic science, computer science, and engineering sciences, necessary to analyze and design complex electrical and electronic devices, software, and systems containing hardware and software components, as appropriate to electrical engineering.
n. Knowledge of advanced mathematics, including differential equations, linear algebra, complex variables, and discrete mathematics.
Annual student enrollment and graduation data is available in the annual UCEE reports available at
http://www.seasoasa.ucla.edu/admissions/enrollment-degree-statistics-new
.
Note: The new CE program is not currently ABET accredited and the department will seek accreditation in 2024.
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Lab Safety
UCLA