Graduate Funding | Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Graduate Funding
Graduate Research Assistant (GSR)
A GSR is the most common form of funding.  Faculty members obtain contracts from various government agencies and industry to carry out research in applied topics.  A portion of these funds is meant to pay trained graduate students a salary to assist in research which will normally result in a thesis or dissertation for the student and scientific progress for the faculty and agency.  Each faculty member determines if he/she has the funding available to support GSR positions, determines whom to hire, and the details on the expectations for the hire.
Departmental Fellowships
All admitted, graduate students are automatically considered for departmental funding opportunities with the UCLA Electrical and Computer Engineering Department.  Award amounts may vary to include registration, fees, nonresident tuition, and student stipend.   The departmental fellowships are highly competitive and are typically awarded only to the most highly recruited applicants.  Departmental funding awards are typically offered by email in mid-March.
University Fellowships
The University fellowship application is integrated as part of the main application for admission.  The deadline for the university fellowship application is the same as that of the application for admission — 12 midnight on December 1.
Extramural Fellowships
The UCLA Graduate Division has a webpage dedicated to
Funding Options for Entering Students
.  The Electrical and Computer Engineering Office of Graduate Student Affairs encourages all applicants to review the Guide and apply for all opportunities for which they qualify.  The GRAPES database contains information on many extramural fellowship opportunities.
Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA)
All domestic applicants are strongly encouraged to complete the FAFSA in order to be considered for need-based funding opportunities.
Teaching Assistant (TA) position
TA positions are reserved for 2+ year students.  First year students and applicants are not eligible for TA positions.
Budget Figures
The
UCLA Financial Aid Office
provides some budget figures that will assist students in preparing for the costs of living in LA and attending UCLA.  These figures are meant to be used as a tool to better prepare students.
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Lab Safety
UCLA