Graduate Admissions Overview | Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Graduate Admissions Overview
Applications to the UCLA Electrical and Computer Engineering Graduate Program are invited from graduates of recognized colleges and universities worldwide. Admission is extremely competitive and applications are considered for the Fall Quarter only. The submission of applications typically opens in the second Monday in September. Decisions are based on the evaluation of multiple factors including (in no particular order): GPA, test scores, recommendation letters, quality of academic preparation, prior research experience, balance across different areas in the department, and the capacity and resources of our program.
The most qualified applicants will have completed a bachelor’s degree in electrical and computer engineering (or a closely related field
**
) with an overall GPA and test scores comparable to our previous year’s admitted applicants.
Fall 2018 Admitted Applicant Averages:
GPA:
3.74/4.0
88.92/100
8.37/10
18.83/20
GRE:
GRE (until July 2011), Scale: 200 – 800
Verbal
Quantitative
Analytical Writing
Average
396
637
3.50
GRE August 2011 – Present, Scale: 130 – 170
Verbal
Quantitative
Analytical Writing
Average
155
168
3.69
Applicants interested in a Ph.D. in Electrical and Computer Engineering are not required to have completed the master’s degree in order to be considered for admission. Those admitted to the Ph.D. program without a master’s degree are required to complete the UCLA M.S. in Electrical and Computer Engineering while proceeding toward the Ph.D.
Students who already hold a MS or PhD degree in Electrical and Computer Engineering or in a closely related field will not be admitted for a duplicate degree at the same level.  Furthermore, after entering the program, no change in degree objective will be approved that would result in the granting of a duplicate degree at a level for which a student has an existing degree in Electrical and computer Engineering or closely related field**.
**Fields considered closely related are: other disciplines of engineering, computer science, physics, and mathematics.
Deadlines:
Deadline for application submission:
11:59 PM (PST), December 15
Deadline for test scores, letters of recommendation, and official transcripts:
5:00 PM (PST), January 3
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Lab Safety
UCLA