Newsletter Archive | Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Newsletter Archive
February 5, 2024
Distinguished Professor Yahya Rahmat-Samii and colleagues in Berkeley published in Advanced Functional Materials by Wiley
“Charge-Programmable Photopolymers for 3D Electronics via Additive Manufacturing”, Advanced Functional Materials published by Wiley, 1-12 pages, Jan. 2024,
View the newsletter
January 16, 2024
IEEE-HKN Asad, Gowhartaj, and Jamal Madni Scholarship
Distinguished Adjunct Professor Asad M Madni, Taj and Jamal Madni established an HKN Scholarship Award which will benefit IEEE-HKN members. The IEEE-HKN Madni Family Scholarship is awarded to HKN students who show exceptional scholarship, service to their communities, and a commitment to HKN.
View the newsletter
December 18, 2023
Distinguished Professor Yahya Rahmat-Samii granted a US Patent – Liquid Metal-Based Tunable Coaxial Antenna for Microwave Ablation
Distinguished Professor Yahya Rahmat-Samii, a UCLA collaborator, Dr. Chih-Sheng Jason Chiang, and a former PhD student, Prof. Lingnan Song, have been granted a US Patent (No.US-2023-0346472-A1 dated 11/02/2023). The present invention generally relates to apparatus and systems for liquid-metal based tunable coaxial antenna; and more particularly to utilizing a liquid metal -based tunable coaxial antenna for microwave ablation. Microwave ablation has emerged as a minimally invasive therapy for the treatment of various types of early-stage solid tumors
View the newsletter
December 4, 2023
IEEE 2024 Newly Elevated Fellow: Professor Lei He
The IEEE announced their 2024 class of Elevated Fellows. Professor Lei He has been elevated to IEEE Fellow status for his contributions to integrated circuits and smart energy systems. Congratulations!
Professor Mona Jarrahi received the 2023 IEEE Sensors Council Advanced Career Technical Achievement Award
Professor Mona Jarrahi received the 2023 IEEE Sensors Council Advanced Career Technical Achievement Award for the pioneering contributions to terahertz sensing and imaging systems. This award honors a person with outstanding technical contributions in sensing technologies.
View the newsletter
November 20, 2023
IEEE Antennas and Propagation Society interviewed Distinguished Professor Yahya Rahmat-Samii
Distinguished Professor M.C. Frank Chang was awarded the 2023 James Clerk Maxwell Medal by the Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers & the Royal Society of Edinburgh
The international award recognizes Chang’s “contributions to heterojunction device technology and CMOS System-on-Chip realizations with unprecedented reconfigurability and bandwidth.
View the newsletter
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Lab Safety
UCLA