Prospective Undergraduate Students | Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Samueli Electrical and Computer Engineering
Prospective Undergraduate Students
What is ECE?
Electrical and Computer Engineering is a broad field of study. Originally, the field was developed to study the mathematics and physics of electricity and electronic devices. However, the field has evolved significantly to encompass both algorithmic and hardware solutions, and a vast area of topics such as communications systems, digital and analog circuit design, sensors, adaptation and learning, signal (speech, music, and image) processing, robotics, embedded computing systems, photonics, lasers, bioinformatics, and other fields.
Visit this interesting webpage from TI on how and why you should become an EE.
Why ECE @ UCLA?
The Electrical and Computer Engineering Department at UCLA has been consistently ranked among the best in the World. With its outstanding student body and faculty, the Electrical and Computer Engineering Department is committed to providing the best possible undergraduate education experience. Our academic curriculum, with an emphasis on engineering design, will give you deep foundational knowledge and hands-on experience that you will need to be a future leader in your profession, whether it be in academia or industry. On our website www.ee.ucla.edu, you will find further information about the department facilities, examples of undergraduate research opportunities and other resources available to our students.
To find out more about EE@UCLA, go to the research section of our webpage where you will find three major areas: Signals and Systems, Circuits and Embedded Systems, and Physical and Wave Electronics. Click on each area to find out about research activities. Please keep in mind that several areas of EE are multidisciplinary, touching on at least 2 of these areas.
We have an excellent record of placing our students into our own and other top ranked graduate programs. Students can be eligible for our 4+1 BS/MS program provided that the GPA at graduation is at least 3.5.
Why UCLA?
UCLA, often ranked as the 2nd best public university in the country, offers more than 3000 undergraduates courses in a large variety of fields including life and physical sciences, humanities, several disciplines of engineering, music, economics and hundreds of languages! UCLA students have won more NCAA championships than any other university, and the UCLA Education abroad program offers exchange programs with more than 30 countries. More than 5000 research projects occur at any given time with thousands of undergraduates participating. And if you need medical care, the UCLA medical center is ranked the best in the west!
Why LA?
Besides year-round warm weather, the ocean and nearby mountains and desert, Los Angeles has many first-class museums, restaurants, and a vibrant music scene. In addition, it is a very diverse city.
We have excellent contacts with local and national industry partners for you to obtain summer internships and jobs upon graduation. The Southern California region is home to many companies in space and aerospace engineering (SpaceX and Northrop Grumman for example), biotech (for example, Amgen), semiconductor (for example, Broadcom), telecomm (for example, Qualcomm), and a large number of startups. Actually, both Broadcom and Qualcomm started their trajectories as start-up founded by faculty from our own department. Even more, one area of LA is attracting so many startups, that it is now called Silicon Beach! Read these articles to find out more about the startup boom in LA!
http://www.inc.com/associated-press/silicon-beach-brings-tech-boom-to-los-angeles.html
http://www.fastcompany.com/3036552/then-and-now/the-snapchat-effect-how-los-angeles-startups-are-snatching-silicon-valley-talen
Where do our alumni go to after graduation?
Our undergraduates are sought after and often secure jobs in the high tech, aerospace, and biotech industries. About 15-20 percent also pursue graduate degrees in engineering, law, business, or medicine.
These are some of the companies where individuals from the classes of 2019 and 2020 are working:
Accenture
Amazon (10)
Analog Devices
Apple (6)
Arista Networks
Boeing (2)
Cedars-Sinai
Cisco Systems
City of Los Angeles
Databricks
Deloitte Consulting (2)
Facebook
Faraday Future
Google (4)
HRL Laboratories
Intel (3)
Jet Propulsion Laboratory
L3 Harris Technologies
Lockheed Martin
Lyft
Microsoft (6)
Northrop Grumman (11)
NVIDIA (4)
Oracle
Qualcomm (7)
Raytheon Technologies (6)
SpaceX (2)
Teledyne
Tesla
The Aerospace Corporation (3)
ViaSat
VMWare
Waymo
Western Digital (2)
Zoox
Here are some of the universities where individuals from the classes of 2019 and 2020 are attending graduate school:
Aalto University Helsinki
Caltech
Carnegie Mellon University
Columbia University
Cornell University (2)
Georgia Tech (2)
Imperial College Business School
Nanyang Technical University Singapore
Johns Hopkins University (2)
Purdue University
Santa Clara Law School
Stanford University (3)
Texas A&M
UC Berkeley (2)
UC Davis
UCLA (60)
UC San Diego
USC (2)
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Lab Safety
UCLA