Notables | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Notables
UCLA has more current faculty and alumni as active Editors of Annals of Emergency Medicine than any other institution!
David Schriger (Research Fellow 1990) - Deputy Editor
William Mower (Class of 1990, Research Fellow 1993) - Senior Associate Editor
Gregory Hendey (Class of 1993) - Associate Editor
Richelle Cooper (Class of 1998, Research Fellow 2000) Deputy Editor
Gregory Moran (Class of 1992) - Associate Editor
David Talan (Class of 1986) - Associate Editor
Tyler Barrett (Class of 2005) - Journal Club Department Editor
Jeffrey Tabas (Class of 1998) - Scientific Assembly Department Editor
Previous
Next
One of our recent graduates recently was lead author in Pediatric paper on Traumatic Brain Injury, receiving national acclaim.
Tabitha Cheng
(EM Class of 2018) published a lead author study in the journal Pediatrics on traumatic brain injury in playgrounds, which received national attention:
http://pediatrics.aappublications.org/content/early/2016/04/28/peds.2015-2721
which received national attention. Read some of the press coverage on Dr. Cheng's
study
One of our alumni was named as the inaugural resident editor of Academic Emergency Medicine during her senior year.
Vanessa Franco
(EM Class of 2017) was named the inaugural resident editor of Academic Emergency Medicine.
Our faculty have a long track-record and continue to publish a variety of landmark, practice-changing papers. See some examples here!
Dr.
Jerome Hoffman
(Class of 1979), Professor Emeritus of Emergency Medicine and Dr.
William Mower
(Class of 1990), Professor of Emergency Medicine In Residence, introduced the
NEXUS C-Spine Rule
now successfully externally validated and taught as part of a standard trauma curriculum in medical schools and residencies nationwide. Dr.
Larry Baraff
published groundbreaking research that helped define our current approach to pediatric fever. Our departmental Chair, Dr.
Greg Hendey
, introduced the “Captain Morgan” technique for hip dislocation and wrote several papers on shoulder dislocation.
Dr.
Gregory Moran
and Dr.
David Talan
, Professors of Clinical Emergency Medicine and Internal Medicine at Olive View-UCLA, lead
Emergency ID-Net
– a consortium of 20 different institutions funded by the CDC to survey emerging infectious diseases in the United States. Together, they have published some of the most influential studies on skin and soft tissue infections in the United States. Their work has repeatedly been supported by multi-million dollar grants from the NIH. They are currently looking at the potential of outpatient treatment for appendicitis with antibiotics over surgery.
Previous
Next
Our faculty and alumni are not just involved in academic medicine. For instance, some of our faculty have been involved in major Hollywood productions!
Dr.
Mark Morocco
(Class of 2001), Professor of Emergency Medicine at UCLA, and Dr.
Mel Herbert
(Class of 1995) were the medical directors for the TV show “ER”, which ran for 15 seasons from 1994-2009.
Our faculty and alumni are nationally renowned for being award-winning, innovate educational leaders in the field of Emergency Medicine. See some examples below!
Several of the UCLA Emergency Medicine faculty have been recognized as outstanding educators in the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA. Winners of the “Excellence in Education Award” include: Drs.
Tomer Begaz
,
Eric Savitsky
(Class of 1995), and
Baxter Larmon
. Dr.
Tom Graham
(Class of 1995) won the Serge & Yvette Dadone Clinical Teaching Award.
Dr.
Mel Herbert
(Class of 1995) founded
EM-RAP
, the popular Essentials of Emergency Medicine course, and HIPPO-EM. Several other alumni have earned national reputations as outstanding educators to thousands of Emergency Medicine physicians nationwide, including Drs.
Michael Menchine
(Class of 2004),
Sanjay Arora
(Class of 2005), and
Ilene Claudius
(Class of 2002). Dr.
Jerry Hoffman
, one of the founders of
Emergency Medical Abstracts
, has delivered thousands of hours of CME courses around the world.
Dr.
Pamela Dyne
, former Residency Program Director and current Designated Institutional Official (DIO) of Olive View-UCLA, served as national president of the Council of Residency Directors in Emergency Medicine between 2005-2007.
Dr.
Maureen McCollough
is a nationally recognized, outstanding educator in Pediatric Emergency Medicine and has been recognized with the American College of Emergency Physicians (ACEP) Faculty of the Year Award, the California Chapter of ACEP Education Award, and the Faculty of the Year Award presented by the LAC/USC Department of Emergency Medicine.
To round things out, many of our faculty and alumni are intricately involved and hold prominent roles in the community.
Dr.
Daniel Waxman
holds a joint appointment as Associate Professor of Emergency Medicine at UCLA and Professor of Health Policy at the Pardee RAND Graduate School in Santa Monica. The RAND Corporation is a nonprofit international research organization that provides objective analysis to help improve public policy and decision making.
Dr.
Clayton Kazan
(Class of 2005) is the current medical director for the LA County Fire Department. Dr. Kazan gives back to his residency by helping coordinate our off-site EMS conferences and our intern EMS rotation.
Dr.
Marshall Morgan
, the late director of the UCLA Emergency Medicine center served as the 142nd president of the LA County Medical Association in 2013-2014 and served as the face for physician interests on key statewide ballot measures.
Previous
Next
Our residents hold national positions
Our residents sit on committees nationally and locally advocating for important issues facing emergency medicine today. Anna Yap (Class of 2022) is currently serving as the California EMRA President and Haig Aintablian (Class of 2022) is currently serving as the AAEM/RSA President.
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health