Diversity | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Diversity
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI)
The UCLA Department of Emergency Medicine is committed to creating and supporting a diverse community of individuals dedicated to excellence and leadership in emergency medicine.  We respect and celebrate diversity in race/ethnicity, gender, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status, language, and religion. We recognize that diversity and inclusion among our residents, fellows, and faculty promotes the delivery of high-quality, culturally aware care to the diverse Los Angeles patient population that we serve.
body
EDI Committee
The purpose of the Emergency Medicine Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI) Committee is to foster diversity and inclusion in the recruitment and retention of our residents, fellows, and faculty to reflect the diversity of the Los Angeles community and to promote population health equity. Our committee includes residents, fellows, residency leadership, and faculty from both Ronald Reagan (RR) and Olive View (OV) medical centers.
IDHEAL (International and Domestic Health Equity and Leadership) Section
Our department is one of the first to establish a section of Health Equity. The section of International and Domestic Health Equity and Leadership (IDHEAL) promotes the role academic emergency medicine can play in the promotion of health equity and ultimately the elimination of health disparities locally, nationally and globally. To do so, we address the social, economic, environmental, and legal determinants of health by partnering with non-traditional allies, such as community based organizations, in order to understand and treat patients in the context of their communities and their lives. The section is an umbrella for collaboration of faculty and mentorship of trainees on projects within the realms of international emergency medicine, population health, migrant health, and social emergency medicine. We frame this as a section of “Health Equity” rather than a traditional section of International Emergency Medicine to emphasize the similarities between these disciplines and the common goal of health equity on a global scale.
www.idheal-ucla.org
body
Visiting Elective Diversity Scholarship
The UCLA Emergency Medicine Visiting Elective Diversity Scholarship Program is intended to provide financial support to fourth-year U.S. medical students with an interest in fostering workforce diversity in healthcare professions and in completing a UCLA Emergency Medicine Sub-Internship (EM 320.01). The goal of the program is to promote student interest in applying to the UCLA/Olive View Emergency Medicine Residency Program by exposing these students to our dynamic clinical and academic environment.
Why UCLA Residency?  Watch video
here!
Eligibility: All students with a commitment to efforts fostering workforce diversity in healthcare professions are encouraged to apply, in particular, those coming from groups that are underrepresented in medicine (UIM).  Apply
here!
UCLA Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (EDI)
Here at UCLA, we are very fortunate to serve an incredibly diverse patient population and we believe our residents, fellows, and faculty should reflect the diversity of the community we serve.   This is not only a commitment of our department, but of UCLA as an institution. Please visit the
UCLA SOM EDI
and
UCLA Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
websites for more information!
Other Resources
UCLA LGBTQ campus resource center
“Save the Date”
UCLA EDI Second Look Day: TBD
LMSA National Conference: TBD
SNMA National Conference: TBD
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health