Donate | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Donate
Skip to main content
Emergency Medicine Greatest Needs
Learn More
The Hoffman Endowed Lectureship in Emergency Medicine Fund at UCLA
Learn More
The Marshall T. Morgan M.D. Memorial Scholarship
Learn More
Emergency Medicine Greatest Needs
Honor an Emergency Patient, the ED Team or just say “Thank You.”
UCLA “Emergency Rooms” are where
YOU
and your family are most likely to use UCLA’s world class medical care – all are welcome and we never close!
UCLA Emergency Medicine’s Greatest Needs Fund - also known as the Grateful Patient Fund – is a way for patients to say ‘thank you’ for care with a gift large or small, from saving a life to stitching a child’s cut -- and the many ways in between that our renowned doctors and staff help whenever you need it.
The fund was born from patient and family experiences in the UCLA ER:
“I didn’t know until later that they saved my life
downstairs
— not the operating room but actually in the ER. I don’t know them, but I remember and I won’t forget. ER is the front line in UCLA’s care— they made the rest, and my ‘second life’ possible.”
“I was driving home on the freeway and the next thing I knew, I was in a helicopter. I thought, this isn’t how I expected my day to end—then I thought please, God, let them take me to UCLA.”
“We called 911. They put our daughter in the ambulance and she had another seizure and they drove right by the entrance to our local hospital, pretty fast. I asked what they were doing and they said so kindly, something like, “Ma’am they can’t take care of her there— they’re not a pediatric care center. We’re taking her to UCLA.”
Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center Emergency Department
Donate
Your donation – small or large – can be directed toward the greatest needs of the Emergency Department or toward a specific goal.  Every gift helps make sure that when you need us, we will be ready and able to provide exactly the help you need, 24/7.
“Everyone wants their gift to be associated with curing a disease. Well, dying suddenly because you can’t get to the right place and the right doctor, that’s worse than a disease— that’s a tragedy. I’d like to make a difference not just for one disease, but to everyone who comes here needing help.”
The Hoffman Endowed Lectureship in Emergency Medicine Fund at UCLA
Advancing the Professional Growth of Medical Students, Residents, and Fellows
UCLA is one of the world’s leading teaching programs in Emergency Medicine, committed to training outstanding experts and highly ethical professionals. The Hoffman Endowed Lectureship in Emergency Medicine Fund at UCLA brings exceptional specialists to campus to present lectures, discuss topics with residents and faculty, and inspire them to further accomplishments.
Jerry Hoffman came to UCLA in 1974 as a resident in Internal Medicine and became a member of the first graduating class of Emergency Medicine residents in 1979. He joined the faculty that year and devoted 30 years to teaching medical students and fostering academic excellence among UCLA Emergency Medicine residents. A national leader in medical education, Dr. Hoffman established a fund to bring prominent lectures to campus every year to expand learning and mentorship opportunities for residents and faculty. We appreciate your support to maintain this fund in perpetuity and inspire future Emergency Medicine specialists.
Dr. Jerry Hoffman
Donate
The Marshall T. Morgan, M.D. Memorial Scholarship
The Marshall T. Morgan, M.D. Memorial Scholarship was established to honor former Chief of the UCLA Emergency Medicine Center, Marshall T. Morgan’s legacy of support for Prehospital Care and Emergency Medicine.
Dr. Marshall Morgan was a Professor of Medicine and Chief of Emergency Medicine at UCLA for 34 years, and President of the Los Angeles County Medical Association from 2013-2014. He was recognized by colleagues, staff, and students as an outstanding leader, educator and a compassionate physician who always had a calming voice, inviting smile, gentle demeanor, and an enduring passion for Emergency Medical Services (EMS). Throughout his life, Dr. Morgan was committed to helping the underserved and disenfranchised not only through direct patient care, but also by sharing his wisdom and by supporting the education of students, physicians, nurses, and EMS personnel.
The funds from this scholarship will commemorate Dr. Morgan’s commitment to Emergency Medicine residents and the career development of promising Emergency Medicine Services providers. Donations to the scholarship will:
Fund the MTM Humanism award for the graduating senior who embodies the traits as a physician that were so important to Dr. Morgan.
Fund the MTM international and Community service award for residents.
Scholarships for deserving students to attend either the UCLA emergency medical technician (EMT) or paramedic education program.
Marshall T. Morgan, MD
Donate
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health