UCLA Express | Business & Finance Solutions
Skip to Main Content
Business & Finance Solutions
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
UCLA Express
Please check your Concur profile to ensure your first, middle and last name match your government-issued photo ID. If the name in your profile does not match your government-issued photo ID, please update your legal name in UCPath (ucpath.universityofcalifornia.edu). Name updates can take up to 72 hours to show in Concur.  If you need to book a flight before your Concur profile has been updated DO NOT BOOK ONLINE, call the UC Travel Center at (310) 206-2639 or email
travel@finance.ucla.edu
.
Latest Updates
Minor Express System Update
In preparation for
Concur Expansion
efforts, minor Express system updates were moved to production on March 22, 2023.
Read the update announcement
Express Best Practices Webinar
Whether you're a new or seasoned user, this webinar teaches you tips and tricks you can immediately implement.
Access
NextGen User Interface
On October 1, 2022, SAP Concur released their NextGen user interface (UI) which modernizes the expense reporting experience in the Express system. Interested in learning more? Watch our
Express Changes webinar
or review our updated training materials.
Express Email Notifications
Express email notifications and reminders are sent to the email address listed as the
Work Email
for the employee in the
campus directory
. If your email appears as “
notavailableinconcur.ucla.edu
” in Express or if you want to change your Express email, please contact your
Department Directory Coordinator
to request that they update your
Work Email
.
After, Department Directory Coordinator
update
your work email in the online directory it will take
‘up to 72 hours’
to update in Express
.
More information, including a list of Directory Coordinators can be found in the
Update Directory Listing
section of the campus directory.
Please Note:
Employees cannot update the Business Email through UCPath self-service, this must be done through the Directory Coordinator.
The field called
‘
E
-
mail
’
in
the
Campus
D
irectory
is recorded as
the Business Email
next day
in UCPath.
Email addresses marked as
Campus Email
within the
UCPath
System
are not used for
the
Express
System
.
Express emails will be sent from an
@concursolutions.com
domain. Please ensure your spam/junk mail settings are updated to allow these as a safe sender.
Notifications
sent from:
AutoNotification@concursolutions.com
Reminders
sent from:
EmailReminderService@concursolutions.com
Users can change the email notifications they receive under their
Profile Settings > Expense Preferences
and/or
Request Preferences
. There are different email notifications based on whether it is an expense report or a request.
If an employee has given permission for a delegate to receive emails on their behalf, the delegate will be copied on all email notifications and reminders. Users can change their delegate’s email permissions under
Profile Settings > Expense Delegates
.
Supervisors are copied on certain email reminders; this setting cannot be changed.
Express email notifications and reminders are sent to the email address listed as the
Business Email
for the employee in UCPath. If your email appears as “
notavailableinconcur.ucla.edu
” in Express, please contact your department HR to request that they update your
Business Email
in UCPath. Employees cannot update their Business Email through UCPath self-service.
Note: Campus Email addresses from UCPath are
not
used for Express.
Express emails will be sent from an
@concursolutions.com
domain. Please ensure your spam/junk mail settings are updated to allow these email addresses as safe senders:
AutoNotification@concursolutions.com
EmailReminderService@concursolutions.com
Users can change the email notifications they receive under their
Profile Settings > Expense Preferences
and/or
Request Preferences
. There are different email notifications based on whether it is an expense report or a request.
If an employee has given permission for a delegate to receive emails on their behalf, the delegate will be copied on all email notifications. Users can change their delegate’s email permissions under
Profile Settings > Expense Delegates
.
Reconciling Company Card Transactions
Travel & Entertainment Card
Use of the Travel & Entertainment (T&E) Card is limited to business travel and event expenses that will be paid directly from the University to US Bank via expense report. The T&E Card should not be used for other types of business expenses and should never be used for personal charges of any kind.
All T&E Card transactions must now be accounted for in the new Express. A cardholder can no longer use the T&E Card, pay US Bank directly (out of pocket), then remove the transaction like they could in the legacy Express.
To account for a T&E Card transaction that the cardholder personally paid to the bank, the transaction must be attached to an expense report and assigned to the “Personal Expense” expense type. Selecting Personal Expense indicates that no payment should be made from the University to US Bank. Selecting Personal Expense for a T&E Card transaction does not necessarily mean that the expense was not for business, but it accounts for the transaction without sending a payment to the bank.
Please note that an expense report cannot be submitted if the only line items on the report are all Personal Expenses (the user will see a red “Action Required” exception message). Personal Expense transactions should be attached to a report in a timely manner, but the report should be held until there are other valid business expenses ready to submit. The Personal Expenses would be combined on the same expense report as the next available business expenses. The trip/event for the next valid business expenses is what the header information (purpose, destination, justification, date range) should be updated to. Be advised that the cardholder (and any delegates who have permission to receive their emails) will continue to receive periodic email reminders until this is resolved by submitting a valid report.
Direct Billed Airfare
Airfare and UCTC service fee charges that are paid via direct billing are also now reconciled via Express. Users will see these company card transactions along with their T&E Card transactions when completing an expense report. To account for these direct bill charges, the company card transaction(s) must be added to an expense report and an approved request must be linked. The transactions can be added to the report as soon as they are available, but the report should not be submitted until after completion of the trip. Any out of pocket or T&E Card transactions should included on the same report, to provide a full accounting of the trip or event.
Please refer to the Quick Reference Guides for detailed Instructions on how to create a report from a request and how to attach company card transactions.
Create a Report from a Request QRG
Add University Card Transactions to an Expense Report QRG
Submitting a Request for a Ticket Refund
The UC Travel Center (UCTC) will advise you if your ticket may qualify for a refund. Refunds are not guaranteed, and airlines may change their refund policy at any time without notification.
If your ticket may qualify for a refund, you will need to create a Request to cover the applicable airline and UCTC service fees.
Specific instructions for how to format a refund request are available here:
Create Request for a Ticket Refund
Express: Online Booking, Request (Pre-Trip) & Expense
Guest Reimbursements
T&E Card
Learn Express
Getting Started
Planning & Booking Travel
During a Trip
After a Trip
Guest Reimbursements
Concur Mobile App
Webinars
Resources & FAQs
Help
I am...
a General User
a Delegate
an Approver
Faculty
a Dean/Executive
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use