About Us | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Home
About Us
About Us
The UCLA Library creates a vibrant nexus of ideas, collections, expertise and spaces for users to illuminate solutions to both local and global challenges.
More Information
Overview
Consistently ranked among the top academic libraries in the country, the UCLA Library drives the world-class research, groundbreaking discoveries and innovation for which UCLA is renowned. Whether on campus or online, the Library takes the lead in preserving cultural heritage, making knowledge accessible and building a library of the future. Under the direction of
Norman and Armena Powell University Librarian Ginny Steel
, the UCLA Library system serves students, faculty and researchers of all disciplines.
By the Numbers
18
million
titles in the Library collection
37
thousand
UCLA eScholarship open access publishing items
21
million
articles downloaded per year
8.5
million
virtual visitors via the Library website
20
thousand
reference transactions a year
Learn More About Us
visit
Locations & Hours
We are one Library with many physical locations. See a specific location for hours, services and contact information.
about
Reports
Annual reports featuring information about the Library during COVID as well as a broad range of information encompassing the work of many different areas and people across the Library.
about
Strategic Directions
Our Strategic Directions offer a roadmap for the future, governed by our mission, vision and guiding principles.
about
Anti-Racism Initiative (ARI)
In the summer of 2020, the UCLA Library embarked on an Anti-Racism Initiative (ARI) intended to improve the internal climate and create a just and welcoming environment for all library workers.
about
Library Policies
These Library policies and procedures provide guidance for conduct, borrowing, copyright and more.
Administration and Organization
The Library is an academic division of UCLA. The Norman and Armena Powell University Librarian reports to the executive vice chancellor and works in consultation with the UCLA Academic Senate Committee on Library and Scholarly Communication. The university librarian is supported by a team of associate university librarians, who manage the Library's constituent locations and support units; please see the
organizational chart
for more details. The Library also manages the
UC Southern Regional Library Facility
. In addition, 12 affiliated library units are located on the campus, which are managed by other departments but also work with the Library.
LAUC-LA
The
Librarians Association of the University of California (LAUC)
(opens in a new tab)
, founded in 1967, is a statewide organization of all librarians employed at least half-time by the University. The objectives of LAUC are: to advise the University on professional and governance matters, to make recommendations concerning UC librarian's rights, privileges and obligations, and to promote the full utilization of UC librarians' professional abilities. For more information on the Los Angeles chapter of the Librarians Association of the University of California, please see the
LAUC-LA website
(opens in a new tab)
.
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use