Collections | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Collections
Connect with physical and electronic library materials to support your teaching, learning and research. If we don’t own it, we have services to get the content you need.
Access Collections
Need guidance on how to access collections from UCLA Library? Below are key resources for accessing all kinds of material, online and in person.
UC Library Search
Locate books, journal articles, course reserves and other content at UCLA, other UC schools and beyond.
A-Z Databases
Find the best library databases for your research.
Library Research Guides
Our research guides help users of all backgrounds discover resources by subject, course, format or topic.
UCLA Library Digital Collections
The Digital Library houses UCLA's rare and unique collections online. Users can search and browse high-resolution digitized books, ephemera, images and artifacts.
Online Archive of California (OAC)
OAC provides access to descriptions of more than 300 California institutions’ archives and primary resource collections, including UCLA Library.
See More
Explore Featured Collections
Explore a featured selection of physical and digital library materials to kick-start inspiration and research. To search UCLA Library's over 12 million volumes, start with
UC Library Search
.
physical
physical
Michael and Susan Kahn Political Cartoon Collection
Collection of over 11,000 books, magazines and prints featuring more than 1 million political cartoons and caricatures created between 1690 to 2022, representing 30 languages and 59 countries.
physical, digital
Tule Lake Japanese Language Library Collection
Over 1,900 volumes from a library created by wrongfully incarcerated Japanese Americans and Japanese immigrants during WWII, including notes, checkout cards and ephemera in Japanese and English.
physical
The Powell Library Cookbook and Food Writing Collection
A collection of modern cookbooks, histories of food and contemporary writing about food culture.
Browse Collections
Collections News
Announcement, Collections
UCLA Music Library presents new display focused on the historic soundscape of Black Los Angeles
February 2, 2024
Library materials highlight the impact of Black music on the city and beyond
Point of View, Collections
The Richard C. Rudolph East Asian Library celebrates 75 years
January 16, 2024
In celebration of this anniversary, Library staff shares some details you might not know about the Richard C. Rudolph East Asian Library.
Announcement, Point of View, Collections, Teaching and Learning
L.A. Stories
January 9, 2024
A new UCLA Library video series highlights the region's diverse communities, cultures and historical landmarks through the Library's collections.
See All Collections News
More Information
About the Collections
UCLA Library provides access to more than 12 million volumes in 400+ languages and in a wide range of formats, including everything from clay tablets and manuscripts to e-books and datasets. We’re here to help you access the content you need for your work, whether we own it, can borrow it for you, or guide you to the best of what’s open access on the Internet.
Other Collections Resources
about
Collections Policies
UCLA Library relies on carefully decided policies and procedures to guide our collecting.
default
Preservation & Conservation
The UCLA Library Preservation & Conservation Department provides expert care to library materials so they are accessible now and into the future.
help
Suggest a Purchase
If we don't own it, we can purchase it for your research. Use this form to suggest the purchase of non-course reserve materials not already owned by UCLA Library.
about
Affordable Course Materials Initiative (ACMI)
This UCLA Library initiative encourages instructors to use low-cost or free alternatives to expensive course materials and awards successful courses adopting these materials for the first time.
about
Open Scholarship and Collections Strategy
We commit to putting collections, resources and scholarship from around the world at the fingertips of students and scholars.
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use