Give to the UCLA Library | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Home
Give to the UCLA Library
Give to the UCLA Library
When you give to the UCLA Library, you’re supporting the intellectual heart of the university.
Give Now
Give Now
More Information
Thanks to our generous donors, the Library makes unparalleled collections, collaborative study and learning spaces, state-of-the-art technology and teaching and research support accessible to every Bruin, powering their success on campus and beyond.
A gift to the UCLA library is like giving a scholarship to every student and a fellowship to every researcher.
—
UCLA Chancellor Gene Block
Funding Priorities
To learn more about these funding priorities, please contact Library Development at (310) 206-8526 or
giving@library.ucla.edu
.
People
Librarians bring their expertise to research and instruction and build collections that help scholars understand the past, learn about the present and look to the future.
Spaces
Collaborative learning spaces in the Library enable students to engage with our collections, librarians and technology in ways that enrich their educational experience.
Collections
From ancient scrolls in Special Collections to the latest medical journals online, the Library provides the information and resources Bruins need and where they need it.
Explore Giving Opportunities
default
Powell Society
With a gift of $1000 or more, join our Powell Society to invest in the UCLA community and receive invites to Library events and celebrations, an Honor with Books bookplate and more.
default
Collections Endowments Initiative
This initiative invites donors to consider a gift to UCLA Library that will provide critically needed funds to acquire, preserve and make accessible library materials in any subject area.
default
Honor with Books
Honor with Books provides a meaningful way to pay lasting tribute to a special person while making an important contribution to the Bruin community.
default
All Library Funds
View all of our funds to support the library, people or program of your choice.
Learn More
default
Ways to Give
Explore the various ways you can make a gift to the UCLA Library.
about
Reports
Annual reports featuring information about the Library during COVID as well as a broad range of information encompassing the work of many different areas and people across the Library.
about
Strategic Directions
Our Strategic Directions offer a roadmap for the future, governed by our mission, vision and guiding principles.
default
Planned Giving
Plan ahead to make a significant gift to the UCLA Library.
Featured News
Collections
Islamic manuscripts hold hidden pearls of knowledge
December 14, 2022
Doctoral students in an Arabic manuscripts course uncovered work by a 16th-century mystic and scholar in Library collection materials.
Teaching and Learning
Information literacy outreach gets boosted with new grant
December 14, 2022
UCLA Library will use new funds to continue its work in the field of information literacy.
Announcement
Imagining indigenous cinema: New voices, new visions
September 19, 2022
A film series organized in partnership with the UCLA American Indian Studies Center showed the vibrant work of emerging Native filmmakers.
Have Further Questions?
Contact Library Development for more information on how to support the Library.
Email Us
Email Us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use