The Crump Institute for Molecular Imaging | OPEN_CMS
Previous
Next
Integrated Science.
Integrated Technology.
This is the Crump Institute.
The Crump Institute for Molecular Imaging brings together faculty, students, and staff with a variety of backgrounds - physics, mathematics, engineering, biology, chemistry, and medicine - to pursue innovative technologies and science to accelerate our understanding of biology and medicine. Innovative technology programs, linked by systems biology, microfluidics, nanotechnology, and molecular imaging, provide the tools to conduct integrated science in a unique, interdisciplinary setting.
With an initial focus on cancer and immunity, our goal is to develop new technologies to observe, measure, and understand biology in cells, tissues, and living organisms. Through molecular imaging - taking pictures of the living chemistry of cells and tissues of the body, we can watch biology in action in living organisms. The Crump Institute's ultimate objective is to provide medicine with new science and technologies to judge the state of health, and identify the early transitions to disease for the development and use of new therapies as part of the new era in molecular medicine.
Read more about "Our Vision."
Announcements
UCLA researchers’ efforts to combat melanoma gets $13M boost from NIH
Dr. Thomas Graeber's team discovers 4 subtypes of melanoma pointing to new treatment approaches
Thomas Graeber is honored for research into why cancer cells respond to therapies
Register Today - Preclinical Imaging Symposium, CNSI at UCLA, Friday, June 10, 2016, "Imaging Biology and Therapeutics"
Murphy and van Dam labs complete the first fully-automated synthesis of 18F-FDHT on the ELIXYS radiosynthesizer
About
Homepage
From Our Director
History
Vision
Our Home
Research Program Areas
Technology Centers
Research
Faculty
Laboratories
Training & Education
University-Industry Technology Transfer
Collaborations
Information
Highlights
Opportunities
Contact Us
Contact Information:
Crump Institute for Molecular Imaging
|
University of California, Los Angeles
|
570 Westwood Plaza
|
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1770
Tel:
310-825-4903
Fax:
310-206-8975
Not logged in |