Jobs at the Center | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
[ Login / Register ]
0  items in cart
Toggle navigation
Jobs at the Center
About Us
Contact Us
Giving
Strategic Plan
Leadership
Equity, Diversity & Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at the Center
Privacy Practices
You chose your profession because you want to make a difference. Now you can make an even greater one by teaching your skills and knowledge to others who share the same values and passion. No matter what your specialty, we offer an incredible range of opportunities for an EMS Educator.
We are the UCLA Center for Prehospital Care, the leading emergency and prehospital academic center on the West Coast. We are committed to improving the practice of EMS and have consolidated prehospital education, research, and system development into one major academic center.  Every day we go to work, we teach people to save lives.
We offer part-time employment opportunities and full-time career positions. We have opportunities at every teaching level. A minimum of six months to one year of clinical experience is required for most part-time per diem Clinical Instructor positions. Teaching experience is preferred (but not required) for our entry-level clinical instructor positions. Our part-time per diem positions are flexible with convenient schedules that allow instructors to work around other current commitments.
As instructors, our employees also have the opportunity to:
maintain and enhance their current skill set or acquire new skills
receive the latest information on current and new EMS education requirements
help educate and train the next generation of the EMS workforce
improve their own clinical skills competency by instructing others
continue their professional development on sponsorship to obtain and maintain ACLS, PALS, PHTLS and BLS provider and instructor certifications and attend our other courses
Career employees also enjoy UCLA's outstanding benefits package that includes medical, dental, and vision insurance. Full-time employees are eligible for over 3 weeks combined of paid holiday and vacation days and a two-thirds UCLA tuition reduction program available after 6 months of continuous service.
How to Apply
To apply for any of our positions, please click the link for the position title below, and follow the instructions on the next page. For part-time per-diem positions, you will apply through UCLA's online application systems. For full-time positions, we may also request a resume and cover letter to our Human Resources Manager.
Full-Time Positions - Department of Emergency Medicine
Junior Fund Manager
Staff Research Associate I
Project Manager
Full-Time Positions - UCLA Center for Prehospital Care
EMS Program Faculty - Paramedic
EMS Program Faculty - EMT
Per-Diem Positions - Department of Emergency Medicine
No current openings.
Per-Diem Positions - UCLA Center for Prehospital Care
ACLS, PALS, NRP Clinical Instructor
BLS Instructor
EMT Clinical Instructor II
FIRE Department and Law Enforcement EMS Educator
Paramedic Clinical Instructor
Phlebotomy Skills Instructor
Work-Study Positions
Students! We are often hiring UCLA work-study students. If you would like to learn more about emergency medicine and prehospital care while working, check out our work-study listings. You can find our work-study job listings by signing in to
MyUCLA
and clicking Finances and Jobs -> Jobs and Community -> Work-Study Job Search. Sort the list by department and look for “Center for Prehospital Care.”
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms