Dr. Lucinda Leung named emerging leader by National Academy of Medicine | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Dr. Lucinda Leung named emerging leader by National Academy of Medicine
January 04, 2024
By Enrique Rivero
1 min read
Dr. Lucinda Leung, assistant professor in residence of medicine and psychiatry at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, has been named one of 10 emerging leaders in health and medicine by the National Academy of Medicine, or NAM.
Leung focuses on integrating treatment options for primary care patients with mental health needs, such as collaborative care for depression and virtual care, and analyzing their impact on care utilization, cost and quality, especially among veterans and safety-net populations.
The 2023
Emerging Leaders in Health and Medicine scholars
are early- to mid-career professionals in fields such as internal medicine, psychiatry, radiology, biomedical engineering and journalism. The scholars’ three-year term will allow them to engage in activities throughout the National Academies of Sciences, Engineering, and Medicine designed to tackle persistent challenges in health and medicine. These include meetings with NAM leadership and members in Washington, D.C., and planning an annual Emerging Leaders Forum.
“This honor from the National Academy of Medicine reflects the strong support I have received from family, friends, mentors, and institutions like UCLA and the VA,” Leung said. “As a primary care physician, I recognize that many patients may never reach mental health specialists and my research strives to make mental health care more accessible for the larger population. My goal within the National Academies is to amplify this issue and advocate for timely, patient-preferred, evidence-based mental health treatment for all.”
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Related Articles
View all articles
Harnessing Research to Improve Sexual Healthcare Access
February 08, 2024
4 min read
From the Coroner’s Office to Med School: One Student’s Unique Journey
February 01, 2024
5 min read
Hypothyroidism vs Hyperthyroidism - What's The Difference?
January 30, 2024
9 min read
A Future Surgeon’s Multi-Faceted Approach to Healing
January 26, 2024
4 min read
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login