New Hire Processing | sonnet
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Search
New Hire Processing
A new hire or rehire must schedule an appointment at least 24 hours in advance with the HR office to complete all paperwork
before or on their start date
. No exceptions will be approved.
Please review and complete the new hire paperwork beforehand and be prepared to present required ID documentation for the Form I-9.  During the appointment, the HR representative will go over the paperwork and answer any questions regarding the forms, general department procedures, benefits and parking eligibility.
Academic (Faculty and Academic Employees): Please contact Stephanie Stern
Staff (Staff, Graduate Research Students, Teaching Assistants, Volunteers and Work-Study Employees): Please contact Letitia Lynex
New Hire Paperwork
Please print, complete, and bring these forms to your appointment along with your I-9 documentation, if you are a current student or have ever been a student or employee at UCLA, your employee ID number will be the same number as your student or employee number.
Personal Data Form
- Please fill out the entire form with your name, address, phone number, etc.
UC W-4/DE-4
-   In Box 1 section 1 and box 1 section 2 I need your marital status; S for single M for married.  In the box underneath each of your marital status I need your allowance withholding (number of dependents) you are going to claim.  You can put  1 if you are claiming yourself, 0 is the max they take out of your paycheck towards taxes, the higher the number of withholdings the less they take out of your paycheck.  These are not set numbers so you can change this anytime through At Your Service.  Once filled out sign the bottom of the page.
State Oath of Allegiance, Patent Policy, and Patent Acknowledgment - Form UPAY585
(to be signed during orientation) - The top part is the state oath portion, it certifies you are a US Citizen and that you follow constitution (only citizens sign here). The bottom portion is the patent portion (everyone signs), it states that if you were to invent anything on or with UC property, UC has first rights to the patent.  Please print and sign the bottom portion.
Form I-9, Employment Eligibility Verification
(please bring required ID documentation; see page 9 for eligible documentation) - This form is to certify your citizenship with the US.  Please fill out all of section 1 with all your information, check off the appropriate box for citizenship, sign and date at the bottom.
I-9 - This form is to certify your citizenship with the US.  Please fill out all of section 1 with all your information, check off the appropriate box for citizenship, sign and date at the bottom.  Please take a look at the list of acceptable document that you must present with the I-9 form.  ** just bring in pages 7 & 8
Direct Deposit
- provide your routing number to your bank on the form, bring a voided check to attach to the form
Demographic Data Transmittal
- This is for affirmative action.  The first page is race/ethnicity information; on the back is any veteran status.  The second page is disability information.  Please check off any boxes that apply.
Statement Concerning Your Employment In A University Position Not Covered By Social Security
(if applicable, see form for details)
Background Check Authorization
(if required for your position)
New Hire UCLA Logon ID and Mandatory UC Training
If not already done,
create your UCLA Logon ID
and allow 24 hours for the ID processing
If not already done, complete mandatory
UC Cyber Security Awareness Training
(Requires UCLA Logon ID to access - see above) and obtain your certificate on completion of the course per IT's
New hire
instructions
Upon completion of both above steps, continue to
New Hire: Next Steps
, "IT Services" section
More Information:
SON ID Badges - the badge application will be provided to you in the HR office
Time Reporting System Resources
About UC At Your Service
Facts About Workers' Compensation
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login