Entrepreneurship Hub | UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Entrepreneurship, Where Innovation Meets Opportunity
Explore the extensive resources within our major startup hubs on campus. With renowned faculty, accomplished alumni, and state-of-the-art technologies, UCLA drives groundbreaking ventures. Immerse yourself in the abundance of possibilities that UCLA’s 50+ years of entrepreneurial innovation offers.
The UCLA Entrepreneurial Ecosystem
With renowned faculty, accomplished alumni, and state-of-the-art technologies, UCLA is a massive hub of innovation that drives groundbreaking ventures. Immerse yourself in the track record of success that has blossomed from UCLA’s 50+ years of entrepreneurship.
Watch Video Fullscreen
Launch and Scale Your Business
Supercharge your company’s growth by leveraging UCLA’s accelerator resources, including year-round programs and dedicated co-working spaces.
The Venture Accelerator at UCLA Anderson
Assists early-stage startups to commercialize their intellectual property by providing annual programs, valuable resources, and expert resources.
Magnify Incubator at CNSI UCLA
Offers capital-efficient resources to early-stage startups focused on scientific innovations addressing unmet needs.
UCLA Health TechQuity Accelerator
Improves health outcomes in underserved and vulnerable patient populations by supporting mission-driven startups.
UCLA Biodesign
Provides a multi-tiered life science entrepreneurship training program for students, faculty and staff to develop novel medical technology.
Leverage UCLA’s Cutting-Edge Entrepreneurial Ecosystem
Discover limitless possibilities for your startup’s growth as you leverage the groundbreaking research and unrivaled academic resources offered by UCLA. Take your venture to the next level by tapping into the transformative power of our trailblazing institution.
The Price Center for Entrepreneurship & Innovation at UCLA Anderson
Offers integrated academic and extracurricular experiences to foster entrepreneurial competence for undergraduate and graduate students.
UCLA School of Law
Offers students many opportunities to learn about entrepreneurship and startup ventures, including a major entrepreneurship competition, classes, and student organizations.
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering
Fosters collaboration between its faculty researchers and UCLA entrepreneurs to solve technical challenges.
Fuel Your Startup Dreams
Take your idea to new heights with UCLA’s specialized support and empowering guidance tailored for aspiring entrepreneurs.
UCLA Technology Development Group
Helps entrepreneurs succeed by offering programs, including UCLA Startup in a Box (SIAB), which connects entrepreneurs to pre-vetted partners.
Startup UCLA
Is an entrepreneurship hub for the UCLA community, serving high school students, undergraduate & graduate students, faculty, staff, and alumni.
The National Science Foundation's Innovation Corps (I-Corps) program
Created for university-based STEM researchers and early-stage startup founders to transition laboratory discoveries into breakthrough innovations.
Resources Available to UCLA Entrepreneurs?
Startup Tree
Venture Accelerator newsletter sign up
Undergraduate Minor in Entrepreneurship
Easton Technology Management Center
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept