B.A. in Dance Admissions • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
B.A. in Dance Admissions
If you are applying to UCLA for the first time
, please read the information under “For New First Year and Transfer Applicants”.
If you are a current UCLA student who wants to major in Dance
, please scroll down to “For Current UCLA Students”.
Dance Video Audition Advice for Fall 2023
FOR NEW FIRST YEAR AND TRANSFER APPLICANTS:
New UCLA first year and transfer students are admitted to the major for fall quarter only. To be considered for admission, applicants are required to complete both the general University of California (UC) undergraduate application, as well as a department supplement.
UC Application Filing Period: October 1- November 30
.
Applicants who have submitted their UC application and have listed Dance as their first choice major to UCLA will have access to the online supplemental application for Dance.
The Dance supplemental application portal will be open from November 15 – December 15. Once an applicant submits the UC Application indicating the Dance major as their first choice major to UCLA, their UC Application will be processed within 1-10 business days (excluding weekends and holidays). Once the UC Application is officially processed, applicants will use their UC Application ID to log into the online supplemental application. Undergraduate applicants must submit both the UC application and Dance supplement to be considered for admission into the major.
Supplemental Application Materials
The supplemental application for the Dance major is due on December 15 at 11:59pm PST, and includes the following specific departmental requirements:
Academics and Extracurriculars
Unofficial Transcripts
Department Statement
Video Audition
Self Portrait Multimedia Project
Optional Experience Resume
For full details about requirements and instructions on submission as well as formatting guidelines, please refer to the Supplemental Application Worksheet at SOAA website:
UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture Prospective Student website
F2024 Dance Supplemental Application Worksheet
(For new First Year and Transfer Applicants to UCLA- B.A., Dance)
All supplemental materials must be submitted through the online upload system; any physical materials submitted to the department will not be considered in the review process.
If you have any questions about the admission process, please email
admissions@arts.ucla.edu
or visit
UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture Prospective Students
***Please note that UCLA is closed for winter break from mid-December through the first week in January. We will respond to all inquiries submitted during this time upon returning.***
Discover Dance at UCLA 2023 (on Zoom)
This event is for prospective students who are interested in learning more about the Dance BA at UCLA and will provide attendees with information about the program, the facilities and studio space, the faculty, the student experience, and the application process.
Sorry you missed it! Watch this year's event on our
WACD Youtube
or
Discover Dance at UCLA 2023
Watch
Studio Practices in Action Fall 2022
featured at Discover Dance
FOR CURRENT UCLA STUDENTS:
NOTE: The 2023-2024 Program Change application is open. Please read through the following information before you start the application. The link to the application portal is at the end of this page.
Current UCLA undergraduate students interested in the Dance major
must identify themselves to the department by
November 30, 2023 (4:00pm PST)
in order to participate in the departmental Change of Major admission process during Fall/Winter. Applications are considered once a year.
Register as a Change of Major applicant using this Google Form:
https://forms.gle/8CMdCwEnti3MdMj69
. As a part of this registration, you will need to submit a PDF of your Program Change Petition. Download the petition form here:
http://www.registrar.ucla.edu/Forms/Registration-and-Enrollment/Undergraduate-Program-Change-Petition
.
Deadline to submit Supplemental Dance application (link below):
December 15 at 11:59pm PST
Students are considered for Spring Quarter admission only.
The Department encourages prospective Change of Major applicants to book a counseling appointment with the department advisors, so that you can get direct individualized information about your degree proposal. Please email
wacdadmissions@arts.ucla.edu
to request an appointment.
UNIVERSITY REQUIREMENTS
You may apply to
ONE
major per quarter only.
You must be in good academic standing at the end of the application quarter. If you are on academic probation at the end of your previous quarter, you may still apply, with the expectation that your status will be cleared at the end of the current quarter. Minimum progress probation status may affect your change of major petition.
PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
The Department strongly prefers a
minimum 3.0 GPA
in Dance courses and an overall
minimum 2.0 GPA
.
ALL APPLICANTS
must have taken previously or be enrolled in
DANCE 1
in the current Fall Quarter of application.
FIRST YEAR AND SOPHOMORE
STANDING
APPLICANTS:
You must have no more than 90 quarter units at the beginning of Winter Quarter, although fewer are recommended.
Applicants must have taken or plan to enroll in DANCE 44 in the following Winter Quarter.
Applicants must have taken or plan to enroll in DANCE 45 in the following Spring Quarter.
Applicants must have taken and/or be enrolled in at least one class at the beginning of the following Winter Quarter from: DANCE 16, 67A, 67B
NOTE
: If you are a prospective Dance applicant with no established UC GPA (ex. you are a new student entering in the Fall who has not taken previous coursework at UCLA or any other UC), you are not eligible to apply until you have a UCLA GPA. For most prospective Dance applicants, the soonest you can apply for a Change of Major is in Fall/Winter of sophomore year, as most students establish their first UCLA GPA in mid-to late December following the completion of Fall Q, which is after the COM deadline.
JUNIOR
STANDING
APPLICANTS
You must have no more than 120 quarter units at the beginning of Winter Quarter, although fewer are recommended.
Competitive applicants will have the majority of their School and University requirements completed.
Applicants must have and/or be enrolled in at least 12 units at the beginning of the following Winter Quarter from: 16, 44, 45, 67A, 67B, 70, 101
Applicants must have and/or be enrolled in at least 8 units at the beginning of the following Winter Quarter from (more are suggested): DANCE 5, 6, 9, 10, 11, 12, 13, 15, 56, 59, 60, 61, 62, 63, 65, C106A, C109A, 112A, C113A, C115, 116, 159, 160, WL ARTS 80
Program Change Application Portal
The department uses SlideRoom to collect Program Change applications. You will need to sign up for a free SlideRoom account. There is no additional cost associated with applying for a Program Change. When you are ready, here is the direct link to the application requirements as well as where to submit:
https://uclaarts.slideroom.com/
- Please choose DANCE Major Program Change Application (current UCLA Students)
Should you have any questions after reviewing this information, please email
wacdadmissions@arts.ucla.edu
.
Frequently Asked Questions
Does the department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance offer any scholarships to incoming students?
The department offers scholarships of modest amounts to our continuing students. Some scholarships are being offered to new students through the UCLA Alumni Association. The Financial Aid Office works closely with all students who need financial assistance. A financial aid award generally consists of a combination of scholarships and grant money from UCLA and other sources, low-interest loans, and a work-study job during the academic year.
As a transfer student, is there any coursework you recommend that I take?
California community college students are strongly encouraged to complete IGETC requirements. All other transfer students are encouraged to make progress toward completion of the UCLA's School of the Arts and Architecture's general education and university proficiency requirements.
Beyond the IGETC/General Education courses, it is recommended that dance major students take coursework in the area of choreography, improvisation, and forms of technique offered. For more specific recommendations, please review the
Transfer Admission Guide
. There is also additional information and guidance for transfer students at
arts.ucla.edu/apply
.
What happens at the live dance auditions?
In response to the global COVID-19 pandemic, the Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance (WACD) asks all applicants to audition by pre-recorded video ONLY. We will not hold live auditions for the Fall 2023 admissions cycle. Please review
Dance Video Audition Advice for Fall 2023.
What is the theme for the personal statement essay? I have already written one for the UC application.
The department personal statement that is submitted with the supplemental application, is distinct from the UC personal insight questions. Your audience for your UC responses are “general UC readers,” and your audience for the UCLA Arts supplemental essays are your department faculty. The department faculty do have access to your UC responses. In the event that the reviewing faculty want more information about an applicant, they may request to review your UC responses.
Who can take dance/choreography classes at UCLA?
All current students are welcome to take dance and choreography classes here at WACD! Some popular classes may fill early, so be sure to register as soon as you are able. All students can register for beginning level classes, which are intended for students who are new to dance, or to a particular style of dance (ex: an experienced ballet dancer may wish to take a beginning West African dance class). Intermediate and advanced levels require attendance at the placement class that happens at the first class meeting at the beginning of each quarter. The placement process allows the instructors to ensure that students are enrolled in the class that most suits their needs at the time, and is not a personal judgment or a statement about potential.
If you’re not sure what styles of dance or what levels are right for you, please email the instructor. In the case of a beginning level class you may simply show up to class on the first day of class. Bear in mind, however, that there is no guarantee you will be allowed to enroll in a class if it is full.
WACD undergraduate and graduate students have first priority once classes are full.
What kind of dance performance opportunities exist for current UCLA students?
Current M.F.A. students periodically need dancers for showings related to their degree progress. Sometimes auditions are posted, while other times fellow dance class attendees are approached. Check the department announcements posted via our social media outlets (Facebook and Instagram), the department's weekly newsletter, and flyers that are posted within the department for audition information.
Additional opportunities exist each year at WACsmash—an interdisciplinary showcase of artists within World Arts and Cultures/Dance. The show incorporates various styles of dance, film, and live music created and produced by undergraduate students.
There is also an annual faculty-choreographed showcase during spring quarter every year. Audition information will be posted in the department.
Who can take seminars in the WACD department?
All current students are encouraged to attend classes here in WACD! Our department is highly trans-disciplinary, with no two students studying the exact same thing, and we embrace diversity of academic background and thought. Please be advised that upper level undergraduate courses may require certain pre-requisites, or permission of the instructor.
Also, please note that some departments do not permit undergraduates from attending graduate seminars. Arts and Architecture undergraduates may not apply graduate level coursework towards their major requirements. Be sure to check with your advisor before you invest your time. Permission to attend a WACD upper level undergraduate or graduate course is ultimately at the discretion of the instructor. Please ask the faculty for advice about whether the course is appropriate for you.
Undergraduate Admissions
B.A. in Dance Admissions
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures Admissions
Contact
For inquiries and additional information, please contact:
Ashley Pham
Academic Advisor - BA in Dance & M.F.A. in Choreographic Inquiry
Email:
ashleypham@arts.ucla.edu
Phone:
+1 (310) 206-5467
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures Admissions
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top