B.A. in World Arts and Cultures Admissions • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures Admissions
If you are applying to UCLA for the first time,
please read the information under “For New First Year and Transfer Applicants”.
If you are a current UCLA student who wants to major in World Arts and Cultures,
please scroll down to “For Current UCLA Students”.
FOR NEW FIRST YEAR AND TRANSFER APPLICANTS:
New UCLA first year and transfer students are admitted to the major for fall quarter only. To be considered for admission, applicants are required to complete both the general University of California (UC) undergraduate application, as well as a department supplement.
UC Application Filing Period: October 1- November 30
.
Applicants who have submitted their UC application and have listed World Arts and Cultures as their first choice major to UCLA will have access to the online supplemental application for World Arts and Cultures.
The World Arts and Cultures supplemental application portal is open from November 15 – December 15. Once an applicant submits the UC Application indicating the World Arts and Cultures major as their first choice major to UCLA, their UC Application will be processed within 1-10 business days, excluding weekends and holidays. Once the UC Application is officially processed, applicants will use their UC Application ID to log into the online supplemental application. Undergraduate applicants must submit both the UC application and department supplement to be considered for admission into the major.
Supplemental Application Materials
The supplemental application for the WAC major is due on December 15 at 11:59pm PST, and includes the following specific departmental requirements:
Academics and Extracurriculars
Unofficial Transcripts
Departmental Statements
For full details about requirements and instructions on submission as well as formatting guidelines, please refer to the Supplemental Application Worksheet below:
UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture Prospective Student website
F2024 WAC Supplemental Application Worksheet
(For new First Year and Transfer Applicants to UCLA - B.A., World Arts and Cultures)
All supplemental materials must be submitted through the online upload system; any physical materials submitted to the department will not be considered in the review process.
If you have any questions about the admission process, please email
admissions@arts.ucla.edu
or visit
UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture Prospective Students
***Please note that UCLA is closed for winter break from mid-December through the first week in January. We will respond to all inquiries submitted during this time upon returning.***
FOR CURRENT UCLA STUDENTS:
NOTE: The 2023-2024 Program Change application is open. Please read through the following information before you start the application. The link to the application portal is at the end of this page.
Current UCLA undergraduate students interested in the World Arts and Cultures major
must identify themselves to the department by
November 30, 2023 (4:00pm PST)
in order to participate in the departmental Change of Major admission process during Fall/Winter. Applications are considered once a year.
Register as a Change of Major applicant using this Google Form:
https://forms.gle/8CMdCwEnti3MdMj69
. As a part of this registration, you will need to submit a PDF of your Program Change Petition. Download the petition form here:
http://www.registrar.ucla.edu/Forms/Registration-and-Enrollment/Undergraduate-Program-Change-Petition
.
Deadline to submit Supplemental WAC application (link below):
January 10 at 11:59pm PST
The Department encourages prospective Change of Major applicants to book a counseling appointment with the department advisors, so that you can get direct individualized information about your degree proposal. Please email
wacdadmissions@arts.ucla.edu
to request an appointment.
UNIVERSITY REQUIREMENTS
You may apply to
ONE
major per quarter only.
You must be in good academic standing at the end of the application quarter. If you are on academic probation at the end of your previous quarter, you may still apply, with the expectation that your status will be cleared at the end of the current quarter. Minimum progress probation status may affect your change of major petition.
PROGRAM REQUIREMENTS
The Department strongly prefers a
minimum 3.0 GPA
in World Arts courses and an overall
minimum 2.0 GPA
.
Students must be enrolled in at least one WAC course during the Fall quarter in which the petition is filed, so that their work may be monitored by the World Arts and Cultures/Dance (WACD) faculty and counselor.
ALL APPLICANTS
must have taken previously or be enrolled in
WL ARTS 1
in the current Fall Quarter of application, this will count towards the above requirement.
FIRST YEAR AND SOPHOMORE
STANDING
APPLICANTS:
You must have no more than 90 quarter units at the beginning of Winter Quarter, although fewer are recommended.
Applicants should have taken and/or be enrolled in at least
one
class by/during the Winter Quarter (if available) from: WL ARTS 2, 20, 24, or 33.
NOTE:
If you are a prospective WAC applicant with no established UC GPA (ex. you are a new student entering in the Fall who has not taken previous coursework at UCLA or any other UC), you are not eligible to apply until you have a UCLA GPA. For most prospective WAC applicants, the soonest you can apply for a Change of Major is in Fall/Winter of sophomore year, as most students establish their first UCLA GPA in mid- to late December following the completion of Fall Q, which is after the COM deadline.
JUNIOR
STANDING
APPLICANTS:
You must have no more than 120 quarter units at the beginning of Winter Quarter, although fewer are recommended.
Competitive applicants will have the majority of their School and University requirements completed.
Applicants should have taken and/or be enrolled in at least
one
class by/during the Winter Quarter (if available) from: WL ARTS 2, 20, 24, or 33.
Program Change Application Portal
The department uses SlideRoom to collect Program Change applications. You will need to sign up for a free SlideRoom account. There is no additional cost associated with applying for a Program Change. When you are ready, here is the direct link to the application requirements as well as where to submit:
https://uclaarts.slideroom.com/
- Please choose WORLD ARTS AND CULTURES Major Program Change Application (current UCLA Students)
Should you have any questions after reviewing this information, please email
wacdadmissions@arts.ucla.edu
.
Frequently Asked Questions
Does the department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance offer any scholarships to incoming students?
The department offers scholarships of modest amounts to our continuing students. Some scholarships are being offered to new students through the UCLA Alumni Association. The Financial Aid Office works closely with all students who need financial assistance. A financial aid award generally consists of a combination of scholarships and grant money from UCLA and other sources, low-interest loans, and a work-study job during the academic year.
As a transfer student, is there any coursework you recommend that I take?
California community college students are strongly encouraged to complete IGETC requirements. All other transfer students are encouraged to make progress toward completion of the UCLA's School of the Arts and Architecture's general education and university proficiency requirements.
Beyond the IGETC/General Education courses, it is recommended that World Arts and Cultures students take additional courses offered in their area of interest (i.e. anthropology, art history, folklore, ethnic studies, gender studies, etc.). For more specific recommendations, please review the
Transfer Admission Guide
. There is also additional information and guidance for transfer students at
arts.ucla.edu/apply
.
What is the theme for the personal statement essay? I have already written one for the UC application.
The department personal statement that is submitted with the supplemental application, is distinct from the UC personal insight questions. Your audience for your UC responses are “general UC readers,” and your audience for the UCLA Arts supplemental essays are your department faculty. The department faculty do have access to your UC responses. In the event that the reviewing faculty want more information about an applicant, they may request to review your UC responses.
What kind of performance opportunities exist for WAC students?
Check the department announcements posted via our social media outlets (Facebook and Instagram), the department's weekly newsletter, and flyers that are posted within the department for audition information.
Additional opportunities exist each year at WACsmash—an interdisciplinary showcase of artists within World Arts and Cultures/Dance. The show incorporates dance, film, live music and more created and produced by undergraduate students.
Who can take seminars in the WACD department?
All current students are encouraged to attend classes here in WACD! Our department is highly trans-disciplinary, with no two students studying the exact same thing, and we embrace diversity of academic background and thought. Please be advised that upper level undergraduate courses may require certain pre-requisites, or permission of the instructor.
Also, please note that some departments do not permit undergraduates from attending graduate seminars. Arts and Architecture undergraduates may not apply graduate level coursework towards their major requirements. Be sure to check with your advisor before you invest your time. Permission to attend a WACD upper level undergraduate or graduate course is ultimately at the discretion of the instructor. Please ask the faculty for advice about whether the course is appropriate for you.
Undergraduate Admissions
B.A. in Dance Admissions
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures Admissions
B.A. in Dance Admissions
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top