Giving - Integrative Biology and Physiology
Giving
You are here:
Home
1
/
Giving
What Your Donation Can Support
The Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology (formerly the Department of Kinesiology and Physiological Science) is a leader in basic science discoveries that benefit health and human disease. Donations to the department are vital to our mission of transforming through education. Your donation, regardless of amount, has a powerful impact and is greatly appreciated. You may focus your gift on a specific area, or make a gift to be used in the area of greatest need. Please click on the “Donate Now” button to make a donation to one of these programs.
General Support
Chair’s Discretionary Fund:
Gifts to this fund allow the department to allocate additional resources to the research, fellowships, and academic programs that help graduate and undergraduate students as well as postdoctoral fellows achieve their goals.
Annual gifts to the Chair’s Discretionary Fund also qualify the donor for membership into the Chancellor’s Circle (annual gifts between $1,000 and $2,499) and Chancellor’s Associates (annual gifts of $2,500 and above).
https://uclafund.ucla.edu/chancellors-society/
Our alumni and friends who already enjoy Chancellor’s Associates member benefits may also direct their annual gifts to our department by selecting it via the UCLA Annual Fund appeals. By designating Integrative Biology and Physiology as the recipient of their annual gifts, Chancellor’s Associates members will retain the courtesies associated with their level of support.
Student Support
Integrative Biology and Physiology Graduate Fellowships
: Our extraordinary graduate students need support to devote their full efforts to their dissertation research. A donation of $32,000 will support one student for one year, but any gift will help us to continue building the fund to provide as many fellowship quarters as possible, which would allow graduate students to focus on their research and dissertation.
Integrative Biology and Physiology Undergraduate Research Fellowships
: Discovery based research in faculty laboratories prepares undergraduates for future careers in science and medicine. Our talented undergraduate researchers must often interrupt their research during summer due to lack of funding support. A donation of $3,000 would support an undergraduate researcher for a summer and help them achieve their career goals.
Donor Recognition
Thank you!
Your generosity is greatly appreciated by the faculty, staff, and students in the department as well as by the University. Donors at all levels should feel proud of supporting higher education, and all donations help us with our mission. Cash donations or gifts of securities are tax deductible and will have an immediate impact. Pledges for future gifts are also welcomed. Named endowments or named faculty chairs are especially welcomed and can help secure our future.
612 Charles E. Young Drive East
Box 957246
Los Angeles, CA 90095-7246
(t) (310) 825-4373
(f) (310) 206-9184
Information
Directory
Academic Calendar
Careers
Getting Around
Maps & Directions
Parking
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
Connect
Alumni
Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Families
Faculty
Staff
Media & Journalists
Resources
Login
Scroll to top