Explore Collections | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Collections
Explore Featured Collections
Explore Collections
Explore a curated selection of physical and digital library materials to get familiar with our world-class collections.
physical
The Powell Library Cookbook and Food Writing Collection
A collection of modern cookbooks, histories of food and contemporary writing about food culture.
physical, digital
Tule Lake Japanese Language Library Collection
Over 1,900 volumes from a library created by wrongfully incarcerated Japanese Americans and Japanese immigrants during WWII, including notes, checkout cards and ephemera in Japanese and English.
physical
Michael and Susan Kahn Political Cartoon Collection
Collection of over 11,000 books, magazines and prints featuring more than 1 million political cartoons and caricatures created between 1690 to 2022, representing 30 languages and 59 countries.
physical, digital
Richard and Dion Neutra Papers
Collection of original architectural drawings, photographs, correspondence and travel sketches from seminal mid-century architect Richard Neutra.
physical, digital
Kango Takamura Kango Paintings, 1942-1945
Over 75 intricate drawings and watercolors painted by Kango Takamura depicting his experiences while incarcerated at Manzanar between 1942 and 1945.
physical, digital
Miriam Matthews Photograph Collection
Over 4,600 photographs documenting the civic and community life of 19th–20
th
century Black Los Angeles, collected by LAPL’s first African American librarian.
digital
Contemporary Music Score Collection
Contemporary, open access music scores published by the Music Library.
physical, digital
L.A. Rebellion Collection
Films made by a collective of African and African American students at UCLA, from the 1960s through the Reagan era.
physical, digital
Caro Minasian Collection of Armenian Material, circa 1600-1968
Over 300 items collected by or given to Dr. Caro Minasian, including correspondence, writings, notes, photographs, clippings, ephemera and other papers. Materials are in Armenian, Persian and English.
physical, digital
Sleepy Lagoon Defense Committee Records, 1942–1945
A collection of correspondence, publications, research materials, scripts, records and transcripts related to the Sleepy Lagoon trial. Portions of the collection are in Spanish.
physical, digital
Golden State Mutual Life Insurance Company Records
Photographs, audio recordings, promotional videos and printed materials documenting Golden State Mutual Life Insurance Company, its employees and the impact their work had on the LA community.
digital
Get Used to It
The public affairs talk show
Get Used to It
(1992–2012) brought together advocates and allies for thoughtful, in-depth conversations on national and local issues impacting the LGBTQ+ community.
physical, digital
Patent Medicine Trade Cards
A collection of 247 small, colorfully illustrated patent medicine trade cards, each advertising a particular trademarked medicine and its many cures.
digital
The Photographer Who Woke Up from the Dead: Mohlouoa T. Ramakatane
The archive of photographer, Mohlouoa T. Ramakatane, documents Lesotho’s social history and visual culture from his 50+ year career.
digital
Independence and Beyond: Ephemera from the Barbados Department of Archives
This collection covers cultural, political, socioeconomic and religious life in Barbados during the formative decades after the country's transition from a colonial territory to an independent state.
Displaying 0 results
Search for “” not found.
We can’t find the term you are looking for on this page,
                    but we're here to help.
Try searching the whole site from
UCLA Library Home
, or try one of the these regularly visited links:
Research Help
Ask Us
Accessibility Resources
Associated Topics
Access Collections
Not sure where to begin? Start your research with some popular resources from UCLA Library.
Research Help
We're here to help! Library staff can support your research journey with a variety of services, tools and resources.
All services & resources
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use