Med School | Accreditation & Rankings | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Accreditation and Rankings
UCLA places among the nation’s best
An overview of what makes UCLA, and the DGSOM, unique
UCLA, and the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, performs well in all national and international rankings of public and private universities, including the most widely known list published by U.S. News & World Report. Here you'll be in good company with leaders across our mission areas working to impact the world for good.
National Rankings
#1
UCLA Health, in California and Los Angeles, 2023
$559M
DGSOM, National Institutes of Health Research Funding, 2022
#10
Best medical schools, Primary Care, U.S. News & World Report, 2023
#1
UCLA, Nationally Ranked Public University, 2023
#13
Most diverse medical school, U.S. News & World Report, 2023
#18
Best medical schools, Research, U.S. News & World Report, 2023
Educational Range and Quality of Experience
6
Partner/concurrent degree programs for medical students
17
Distinct fields of PhD training in the biosciences
103
ACGME accredited speciality and subspecialty programs
284
Sunny days per year in Los Angeles, on average
Excellence in Faculty Membership
37
American Society for Clinical Investigation Members
20
National Academy of Sciences Members
36
National Academy of Medicine Members
8
UCLA-wide Nobel Laureates
LCME Accreditation
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA (DGSOM) is accredited by the Liaison Committee for Medical Education (LCME), the accrediting agency serving medical schools in United States and Canada. Accreditation by the LCME establishes eligibility for selected federal grants and programs, including Title VII funding administered by the U.S. Public Health Service. Additionally, graduate of LCME-accredited schools are eligible for residency programs accredited by the Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME). DGSOM was first accredited by the LCME in 1951.
In February 2021, DGSOM participated in a site visit to seek our eight-year reaccreditation from the LCME. This is a peer-reviewed process of quality assurance that determines whether an institution’s program and medical school meet nationally established standards, outlined in the Functions and Structure of a Medical School. The almost two-year self-study process that followed included our entire educational community — faculty, residents, staff, and students — whom provided valuable reflection on our strengths and important feedback on how we can continue to improve as a medical school.
The February 2021 site visit consisted of submitting a survey package containing the following:
Data Collection Instrument (DCI)
Institutional Self-Study
Independent Student Analysis
The survey package is available to review in
Box
. The outcome to the 2021 reaccreditation visit will be announced Fall 2021. For more information about the LCME, visit
Liaison Committee on Medical Education
.
Review Survey Package
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login