Med School | Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award is | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award
2023 Recipient: Jane Yanagawa, MD
Honoring the finest in professionalism, compassion, empathy, and care
About the Award Recipient
The 2023 recipient of the Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award is
Dr. Jane Yanagawa
. Dr. Yanagawa joined the faculty at the David Geffen School of Medicine in 2013, and she is currently Associate Professor in the Department of Surgery and Director of the Thoracic Surgery Program at Santa Monica Hospital. She was the first female faculty member to join the Division of Thoracic Surgery at UCLA and she serves as an exemplary role model for all trainees.
Letters of nomination from faculty, residents and students, highlight her exceptional compassion, her empathy and kindheartedness for her patients, as well as her unwavering commitment and dedication to creating a culture that is inclusive, diverse and equitable.
A fantastic clinician and teacher, who demonstrates the highest level of compassion for her patients and their families every day, Dr. Yanagawa is known for her dedication to her patients and her learners.
About the Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award
The Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award is presented by the
Arnold P. Gold Foundation
, a national organization dedicated to ensuring that compassion, respect, and empathy are at the core of all healthcare interactions.  This award recognizes and honors faculty members who are exemplary in their compassion and sensitivity in the delivery of care to patients and their family members, as well as in their respect for their colleagues.  The recipient is nominated and selected by faculty peers.
Thank you to the Leonard Tow Award selection committee members for their outstanding work reviewing numerous dossiers submitted for consideration.  The faculty members serving on the committee are:
Stephen C. Cannon
Jodi L. Friedman
Isla P. Garraway
Judith Gasson
Arthur G. Gomez
Jennifer M. Lucero
Learn About the Leonard Tow Humanism in Medicine Award
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login