DEI Events Schedule | JEDI | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Events
Upcoming Events
View all JEDI events
Feb
27
Virtual
Underrepresentation of AAPI in Research Awards
Event Date
February 27, 2024 | 5:30
-
6:30pm
Mar
19
Virtual
Resident Roundtables
Event Date
March 19, 2024 | 6:30
-
7:30pm
Apr
16
Virtual
Stop AAPI Hate: How Academic Medicine Can Participate
Event Date
April 16, 2024 | 5:30
-
6:30pm
Apr
30
Virtual
Underrepresentation of AAPIs in Academic Medicine Leadership
Event Date
April 30, 2024 | 5:30
-
6:30pm
A community that cares
Live your life of impact, we can help
We offer opportunities to stimulate rich interactions and discussions that allow our community members to learn from one another.
Through our events, mentorships, and training and professional development programs, we strive to build a culture fed by many voices and perspectives and an environment where those from all backgrounds have the support they need to thrive.
Conferences
JEDI-Sponsored Conferences
Asian American Pacific Islander Mental Health Conference
Minority Health Conference
Road to Residency
Southern California LGBTQIA+ Health Conference
Conferences on our Radar
AAMC Conferences
LA Global Health Conference
UCLA Health Care Symposium
SNMA’s Annual Medical Education Conference (AMEC)
Is there a conference we should add to the list? Email
DGSOMJEDI@mednet.ucla.edu
to request help getting the word out.
JEDI/ARR Student Conference Funding Request
Who may submit funding request:
Students of all years who have had an abstract and/or paper related to equity, diversity and inclusion or anti-racism efforts in the medical education space that has been accepted by a national or regional conference for a workshop, poster or oral presentation.
JEDI/ARR Student Conference Funding Request
Lecture Series
Ongoing discussions and dialogue
Our community will be at its strongest and most resilient when everyone benefits from the insight of eclectic perspectives. DGSOM aims to cultivate an environment of continual broad-minded growth by providing events and opportunities for open communication. If you'd like to make a suggestion for lecture topics or a series you'd like to see, please let us know!
Academic Affairs Lecture Series
Equity and Justice Action Series
Submit Topics
Video Highlights
Artivism in Healthcare
Artist-activists discuss how artivism can further anti-racist transformational change.
Everyday Racism
Examining everyday racism in academic and social spaces.
M&D Live
Monthly sessions on Health, Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion with UCLA Health.
Women's Empowerment Brunch
Presented by:
UCLA/CDU Chapter of the Student National Medical Association (SNMA)
The Women’s Empowerment Brunch is a celebration of Black women in medicine. The event is an exciting opportunity for women in medicine to identify with like-minded individuals, empower others, and facilitate open and honest conversations that will promote personal and professional growth and health advocacy.
It’s important to see women from all levels of their educational journey in one room, especially for any pre-med students who may feel less supported on their campus. They get to see women in front of them who have made it and learn from them. Distinguished MDs come and shed light on how to have the confidence to persevere despite any trials and tribulations. Everyone can network and feel encouraged to continue on their journey.
Cléa Marsh, Medical Student DGSOM/DREW, Class of 2021
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login