Justice, Equity, Diversion and Inclusion | About | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
JEDI Overview
Mission
At the most fundamental level, our mission is to promote and sustain an inclusive environment within the David Geffen School of Medicine community. We cherish and encourage the diversity of our students, trainees, staff, and faculty and work to ensure that all members of our community can thrive.
We believe
We believe diversity inclusion celebrates the richness of our individual identities, such as gender, race, ethnicity, sexual orientation, age, socioeconomic status, language, religion, and abilities.
We achieve
We achieve both excellence and equity by continuously sharing diverse thoughts and opinions that help eradicate barriers for success, expand research goals, and improve patient care.
What is Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion?
What is Justice?
Justice is the process of healing the long-standing ailment of inequity and restoring opportunities to people who have been oppressed.
We cultivate justice by leveraging the collective expertise of UCLA Health, inclusive of DGSOM and the UCLA Health system, to eradicate inequities within our institution and across the populations we serve.
What is Equity?
Equity is a curative state where everyone has the opportunity and support they need to achieve excellence in their education, profession, wellbeing, and health.
Our optimal, equitable environment provides resources and opportunities that are easily accessible and available to every person in every population within our community.
What is Diversity and Inclusion?
Diversity and inclusion are the ideals that keep us proactively and pragmatically reflecting on our actions and progress.
We commit to be constantly pushing to do more to ensure that everyone has a seat at the table, a respectful ear for their opinions, and a welcoming community where they may thrive.
Why Are Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion Vital?
Championing the tenets of justice, equity, diversity and inclusion while working to acknowledge and address the structural issues causing socio-cultural wounds in our community is our path forward to affecting lasting structural changes.
DGSOM Diversity Statement
At the David Geffen School of Medicine, the core values of diversity and inclusion are inseparable from our institutional goals of excellence in all tenets of healthcare, research, education, and community engagement. With the active support of its leadership, DGSOM is committed to recruiting and retaining outstanding students, residents, fellows, staff, and faculty from diverse backgrounds who represent the communities served by the University of California.
Our goal is to foster an environment of respect that celebrates the unique perspectives, contributions, and expertise that each individual brings to DGSOM. Through a process of continual reevaluation, reflection, and feedback, we are unwavering in our dedication to achieve justice, equity and diversity inclusion.
Adopted March 2020
University of California Diversity Statement
“Diversity – a defining feature of California’s past, present and future – refers to the variety of personal experiences, values and world views that arise from differences of culture and circumstance. Such differences include race, ethnicity, gender, age, religion, language, abilities/disabilities, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status and geographic region, and more.”
UCLA Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
DGSOM Strategic Plan
The plan integrates priorities from the JEDI and
Health Equity, Diversity and Inclusion (HEDI)
offices. It enables each department to focus on endemic issues and discipline and space-specific strategies.
Priority Areas
People
Climate
Structural equity
Professional development/education
Community engagement
Patient care
Progressing to structural change
Positive, sustainable, and authentic change; we value transparency as we make incremental progress.
View Dashboard
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login