Student Spotlight – Amberlene De La Rocha | Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Search
Student Spotlight – Amberlene De La Rocha
March 14, 2023
1 min read
I am a Latina and a first-generation college student in the laboratory of Dr. X. William Yang. My PhD thesis work uses genetic methods to study Alzheimer’s disease pathology.
Exciting research project or any highlights in your lab
I am developing a novel approach for brain-wide imaging and analysis of Alzheimer’s disease pathology at a single cell resolution. Using a genetic model generated in my lab, MORF3, we are able to sparsely label genetically-defined cell populations and use computer reconstructions to get robust datasets characterizing morphological changes associated with disease progression.
How did you decide on your focus of research?
Alzheimer’s disease research is a rapidly evolving field, and there are many opportunities for new discoveries and advancements in our understanding. Current pharmacological approaches to treatment have been largely ineffective, and research is needed to discover new therapeutic targets.
What brought you to UCLA?
I chose UCLA for its academic rigor and excellent research facilities, as well as the uncommonly diverse student body. The combination of diversity, mild climate, entertainment, great food, and natural beauty makes Los Angeles a great place to live and work.
Do you have a personal motto?
“Every action is a vote for the type of person you wish to become”.
Do you have any hobbies outside of the lab?
I am involved with the UCLA chapter of SACNAS, the Society for the Advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans in Science. In my free time, I practice a type of martial art called Aikido. I also enjoy attending film screenings offered through organizations associated with the UCLA School of Film and Television
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Related Articles
View all articles
Faculty Spotlight – Tanya Stoyanova, Ph.D.
June 16, 2023
2 min read
Alumni Spotlight – Quan (Dylan) Zhou, Ph.D. (2019)
April 27, 2021
1 min read
Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology
650 Charles E. Young Dr. South
23-120 Center for Health Sciences
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1735
Box: 951735
Mailcode: 173517
Email:
pharmacology@mednet.ucla.edu
Fax:
(310) 825-6267
Useful Links
Campus Directory
Campus Map
UCLA Events Calendar
David Geffen School of Medicine
Department
Ahmanson Biomedical Cyclotron
Ahmanson Translational Theranostics Division
Crump Institute
Crump Pre-Clinical Imaging Facilities
UCLA Metabolomics Center
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login