Financial Aid | UCLA School of Nursing
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
Alumni
Students
Financial Aid
Invest in Your Future
The Financial Aid Office staff is here to help you figure out how to pay for your program at the UCLA School of Nursing.
Learn more about the types of financial aid available.
The School of Nursing at UCLA offers various types of financial aid to assist in making education affordable for a broad range of students.
Navigating the financial aid process can be quite an endeavor, but the mission of the Financial Aid Office is to help students do so by providing information, counseling, and resources.
Our website will provide you with information for determining how to finance your education at the School of Nursing and our office is dedicated to assisting you in navigating your way through the financial aid process. This leaves you to focus on what’s most important: your education.
Applying for Aid
Before you do anything else, fill out the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) or the DREAM Act Application. Make sure you complete the application before the UCLA priority deadline of March 2. These applications become available on October 1 each year and they provide access to federal- and state-based financial aid programs for all eligible students.
Learn more about applying for aid
Types of Aid
The UCLA School of Nursing offers scholarships, grants, and loans to assist in making nursing education affordable for a broad range of students.
Learn more about the types of aid available for your program
Tuition and Fees
Attending the UCLA School of Nursing is a valuable investment in your future. A major factor that influences a student’s overall budget is tuition. Tuition fees are flat amounts assessed to all full-time students based on enrollment status and program. Most UCLA fees are paid by term. Costs for housing, books, materials, etc. are not included.
Learn more about tuition fees for your program
Cost of Attendance
The Cost of Attendance (COA) is your student budget. Your budget is the estimated average and reasonable cost of completing an academic year at the UCLA School of Nursing. The COA includes cost components such as tuition and fees, housing, books, personal expenses, and transportation. Your budget serves as the foundation for determining your financial need as well as the amount of qualified aid, including grants and scholarships, that can be offered to you.
Learn more about the cost of attendance for your program
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Tiverton Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
sonsaff@sonnet.ucla.edu
Information
Faculty Directory
Nursing at UCLA Health
Useful Links
Current Student Website
SON Intranet
IT Support
SON Email
eValue Login
Getting Around
Campus Map
Parking Information
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login