Alumni | MAE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Alumni Advisory Board
Mission
The UCLA Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering (MAE) Alumni Advisory Board’s mission is to promote the communication, growth, and shared activities of the MAE alumni, faculty, and students.
The AAB members offer unique inputs to help the Department understand the needs of industry, insights into how well the department is meeting the mechanical and aerospace engineering needs of the future, and knowledge of current industry trends, including suggestions for keeping the curriculum and degree programs current. They also provide input to academics, research, outreach, advocacy, and development.
The members represent a cross-section of the alumni of the Department and the major areas of the mechanical and aerospace engineering field.
The AAB meets annually, and is involved in several activities, including the annual Discover UCLA Engineering day, annual Graduate Student welcome day, mentorship and support for the Department’s student groups, and the ABET Accreditation process every eight years.
View the current
MAE Alumni Advisory Board photos and bios
.
Members
Greg Caguimbal, ’16, MS ’19 ME, Northrop Grumman
David Crawford ’95 ME, Virgin Galactic
Mark Ford, ’82, MS ‘88, AE, Northrop Grumman
Greg Glenn ‘03, MS ‘06, ME, Proteor USA
Rob Glidden, ’06, MS ’07 ME, Johnson & Johnson
Sherwin Goo ’87 AE, Jet Propulsion Laboratory
William Goodin MS ‘71, PhD ‘75, ME, UCLA
Kari Graham ’11 ME, Convergent Research
Owen Hemminger ’19 ME, Phillips 66
Tara Kawai ’17 AE, Northrop Grumman
Nicole Kodama ’01 ME, Northrop Grumman
David E. Lee ‘MS ‘90, PhD ‘98, ME, Northrop Grumman
Jessica Leung, ’15 ME, Aera Energy
Edward Lin ’13 AE, MS ’14 ME, Northrop Grumman
Sasha Lukyanets ‘07, MS ‘09, AE, The Aerospace Corporation
Nirav Mehta ’16 AE, Northrop Grumman
Avi Okon ‘02, MS ‘05, ME, Jet Propulsion Laboratory
James Sharp ‘03, MS ‘06, ME, Northrop Grumman
Eliza Sheppard ‘MS ‘05, ME, MBA ‘10, Northrop Grumman
Hannah Scherer ’10 AE, Northrop Grumman
Marianne So ‘07 ME, MBA ’17, LA Department of Water and Power
Norman Tolentino ’97 AE, Boeing
Joshua Valerio ’19, Raytheon
Cynthia Vo ’20, SoCalGas
Nadine Wong ’12 ME, Dynamic Research
Get Involved
Engineering Alumni Association
The UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science’s proudest assets are our more than 42,000 alumni. In Southern California and around the world, our alumni show tireless dedication to the school, community service and the profession of engineering.
The primary goal of UCLA Engineering Alumni Association (EAA) is to engage more alumni with the school in support of engineering education and research.  The EAA also helps promote interaction between alumni and students via sponsoring hands-on student projects; and nominates and helps select the alumni honored at the annual Engineering Awards Dinner.
There is more information on the
HSSEAS Alumni Website
.
Stay Connected
N
Update Your Information

Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering News and Events

School of Engineering News
Networking Opportunities
UCLA Engineering Alumni on Social Media

UCLA Engineering Linkedin

UCLA Engineering Facebook

UCLA Engineering Twitter
UCLA Alumni Networks

Alumni Directory

UCLA Networks

Career Center
Continue Your Education
i
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Graduate Programs and Preliminary Exams

Engineering MS Online Program
l
UCLA Extension Certificate Programs
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA