Faculty and Post-Doctoral Positions | MAE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Students
Faculty and post-doctoral positions
Faculty and Post-Doctoral Positions
ON-CAMPUS POSITIONS
Solid Mechanics Faculty Position in Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering
The Department of Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering invites applications for a tenure-track faculty position at the Assistant Professor level.
Applicants for the position must have a demonstrated record of excellence in, or show exceptional promise for, high-quality research, teaching, and professional development. In addition, it is desired that applicants have a demonstrated record of interest in, and commitment to, the mentorship of students from underrepresented and underserved populations.
Candidates whose technical expertise complements and augments the department’s existing strengths in the area of Solid & Structural Mechanics are of interest. Specific technical areas of interest include, but are not limited to, structural vibrations and dynamics, multi-scale and multi-physics computation of advanced materials, experimental mechanics, novel materials and structures (e.g., materials under extreme conditions, metamaterials, and aerospace systems), AI-based design, and mechanobiology/biomechanics. The department’s hiring priorities are focused on the frontiers of mechanical and aerospace engineering research, where a candidate’s impact, originality, and promise for developing and maintaining a strong, extramurally supported research program has been demonstrated. We are interested in outstanding candidates who are committed to excellence in teaching and scholarship and to an inclusive, diverse campus climate.
This position requires a Ph.D. or equivalent in mechanical or aerospace engineering or a closely related discipline at the date of hire.
Application packages should be submitted online through https://recruit.apo.ucla.edu/JPF08908 and include the following documents: 1) curriculum vitae, 2) statement of contributions to equity, diversity, and inclusion, 3) statement of research interest, 4) statement of teaching interest, 5) a cover letter, and 6) reference check authorization form.
Review of applications will begin on December 1, 2023 and continue until the positions is filled. Inquiries about the position and nominations of potential candidates should be directed to Professor Xiaolin Zhong, maechair@seas.ucla.edu.
Los Angeles is a global city renowned for its dynamism, robust economy, rich cultural diversity and spectacular climate. UCLA has been ranked the No. 1 public university in the nation by U.S. News & World Report for seven straight years. UCLA Samueli is a tightly knit community with more than 6,500 undergraduate and graduate students and nearly 200 full-time faculty members; it is in the midst of its largest growth since the school was founded in 1945. The school is consistently ranked in the top 10 among U.S. public engineering schools, and its master’s online program is ranked No. 1 overall by U.S. News & World Report. UCLA Samueli is known as the birthplace of the internet, and where countless other fields took some of their first steps – from artificial intelligence to reverse osmosis, from mobile communications to human prosthetics. UCLA Samueli is deeply committed to diversifying the ranks of its faculty, staff and students, and to providing an equitable and inclusive environment for all its members.
The posted UC salary scales set the minimum pay determined by rank and/or step at appointment. See Table 3. The salary range for this position is $115,000-$130,000. “Off-scale salaries” and other components of pay, i.e., a salary that is higher than the published system-wide salary at the designated rank and step, are offered when necessary to meet competitive conditions.
This General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR) Statement for Persons in the European Economic Area is designed to provide information regarding the types of personal information that the University of California’s Human Resources departments and offices collect.
Please be advised that the final candidate recommended for hire into a critical (or otherwise designated) position will be required to successfully complete a background investigation. Any convictions will be evaluated to determine if they directly relate to the responsibilities and requirements of the position. Having a conviction history will not automatically disqualify an applicant from being considered for employment.
UCLA is a tobacco-free environment. For more information, please view the policy at Tobacco-Free Campus Policy
Application Requirements Document requirements
•Cover Letter
•Curriculum Vitae – Your most recently updated C.V.
•Statement of Research•Statement of Teaching
•Statement on Contributions to Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion – An EDI Statement describes a faculty candidate’s past, present, and future (planned)contributions to equity, diversity, and inclusion. To learn more about UCLA guidelines on contributions to equity, diversity, and inclusion, please review our sample Guidance for Candidates and related EDI Statement FAQ document.
•Reference Check Authorization Form
•Miscellaneous / Additional (Optional)
Reference requirements
•3-5 required (contact information only)
The University of California is committed to creating and maintaining a community dedicated to the advancement, application, and transmission of knowledge and creative endeavors through academic excellence, where all individuals who participate in University programs and activities can work and learn together in a safe and secure environment, free of violence, harassment, bullying and other demeaning behavior, discrimination, exploitation, or intimidation. With this commitment as well as a commitment to addressing all forms of academic misconduct, UCLA conducts targeted employment reference checks for finalists to whom departments or other hiring units would like to extend formal offers of appointment into Academic Senate faculty positions. The targeted employment reference checks involve contacting the finalists’ current and prior places of employment to ask whether there have been substantiated findings of misconduct that would violate the University’s Faculty Code of Conduct. To implement this process, UCLA requires all applicants for Academic Senate faculty positions to complete, sign, and upload the form entitled “Authorization to Release Information” into RECRUIT as part of their application. If the applicant does not include the signed authorization to release information with the application materials, the application will be considered incomplete. As with any incomplete application, the application will not receive further consideration. Although all applicants for faculty recruitments must complete the entire application, only finalists (i.e., those to whom the department or other hiring unit would like to extend a formal offer) considered for Academic Senate faculty positions will be subject to targeted employment reference checks.
OFF-CAMPUS POSITIONS
Added November 21, 2022
POSITION ANNOUNCEMENT
Assistant Professor – Flexible Packaging
School of Packaging
Michigan State University
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA