Industry | MAE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering Department
Industry Advisory Board (IAB)
The MAE Industry Advisory Board (IAB) provides an opportunity for senior-level industry and government representatives to support the MAE Department and interact with each other in furthering the department mission of education, research, and service.
The MAE IAB provides valuable advice regarding the changing needs of industry and the engineering profession. It also provides suggestions for strengthening ties with industry to promote industry-academia interaction, collaboration and research, and technology transfer.
By invitation from the MAE Chair, corporate partners are invited to participate, based on a prior or anticipated relationship with the department, and ability and willingness to provide thought leadership and expertise. This opportunity for professional development and civic engagement is integral to shaping and advancing mutually beneficial partnerships between academia and industry. The board leverages the department’s strengths and assets, helping to create relationships between industry and government and MAE faculty, students, alumni, research centers and institutes.
The IAB meets once a year in-person on campus, where members receive updates on MAE research and educational programs, current trends, strategic plans, projected directions, and schoolwide issues. The IAB members provide constructive advice and engage with faculty and students at a variety of levels. IAB members may also interact with each other and department faculty occasionally throughout the year.
IAB member companies are encouraged to support the MAE department through corporate or personal financial and in-kind contributions, which go toward supporting the department’s educational mission, including student group and club activities, projects, and events. Current MAE student groups include American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (AIAA), American Society of Mechanical Engineers (ASME), Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) Bruin Racing, 3D Printing for Everyone (3D4E), Rocket Project, and others. Activities include annual career fairs, national design competitions, and hosting company infosessions. Member companies are also invited to support senior capstone design projects and student scholarships and fellowships.
Please contact
MAE Chair Xiaolin Zhong
to discuss the various ways that your company can give to the UCLA MAE Department and how your gift will be used to support the highest quality of teaching and research.
Industry Advisory Board Members
Igor Alvarado
Academic Business Development Manager
National Instruments
Jon Arenberg
Chief Engineer/Space Science Mission
Northrop Grumman
Brian Boyce
Vice President of Engineering for the Space Business Propulsion and Power
Systems Segment at Aerojet Rocketdyne
Natalie W. Crawford
Senior Fellow and former Director, Project AIR FORCE
RAND Corporation
Gerald J Deren
Americas for Siemens Digital Industries Software (DISW)
David Fang
Senior Principal Design Engineer in the
Diabetes Operating Unit at Medtronic
Mia M Fujii
Director, Academic Enablement, Siemens Digital Industries Software
Luke Haylock
Director of New Product Development
Howmet Fastening Systems
Nathan Kwok
EVP Sales & Marketing of Safran Cabin
Jean-Philippe (JP) Laguerre
Centers of Excellence
Anthony Lai
Chief System Architect
Frontgrade Technologies
Eugene Lavretsky
Senior Principal Technical Fellow
Boeing Company
James C Liau
Principal Director at The Aerospace Corporation (Aerospace).
Esperanza Linares
Senior Customer Success Engineer at MathWorks
Geoffrey McKnight
Director, Materials and Microsystems Laboratory
HRL Laboratories, LLC
Julio Moreno
Phillips 66
Shawn Phillips
Chief of the Rocket Propulsion Division within the Air Force ResearchLaboratory (AFRL/RQR)
Will Rehrig
President of Rehrig Pacific Company
Marianne M. So, P.E.
Mechanical Engineer, Water System
Los Angeles Department of Water and Power
Norris Tie
Co-Founder, Exosonic
Steven J. Yahata
Vice President, Aeromechanics Technology
Boeing Company
Dave Yokota
Director, ECS Strategy & Architecture Development
Honeywell Aerospace
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA