PhD Graduation Checklist | MAE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Phd Graduation Checklist
Important
: All UCLA deadlines are at
5:00PM
Pacific Time (PT) on a business day unless otherwise indicated.
All students must enroll in a
minimum
of 12 credts each term
(F, W, Sp)
to maintain full-time graduate status
(no part-time students)
.
Failure to do so may result in student having to reapply for admission.
The
deadline for being on Filing Fee
for Fall, Winter, or Spring term is Tuesday of Week 1 of the quarter during Filing Fee Usage
A student must submit a completed application with all necessary approvals by 5:00 pm Pacific Time (PT)
Summer term filing fee is due 8 business days prior to the last day of
Summer Session C
A student who has not already earned the master’s degree
must
file for
MS advancement to candidacy
before
the prospectus
. Note that
a student cannot advance to candidacy during the same term as the filing fee
.
For more information on
Graduate Status Comparison
, see below:
Filing Fee
In Absentia Registration
Leave of Absence
Withdrawal
Please review the MAE PhD degree program requirements and complete the following required forms for your PhD degree
PhD Degree Summary
The basic program of study for PhD degree is built around the major and minor field. The body of knowledge should include:
Six major field courses at least four of which must be graduate courses
One minor field
Any three additional courses, at least two of which must be graduate courses, that enhance the study of the major or minor field
See our
Graduate Programs and Preliminary Exams
to review the
Major Fields of Study syllabi
.
All PhD Forms
(
find forms here
):
1. Program Requirements
2. Program of Study (Requires the Chairman’s approval for each of your major and Minor fields)
List your 12 courses taken with a GPA of 3.25 or above.
3. Nomination of Doctoral Committee (Nomination must be submitted and approved by the Graduate Division at least two weeks prior to taking your Oral Qualifying examination.)
4. Oral Qualifying/Prospectus examination (
you
must
file for
MS advancement to candidacy
before your prospectus
)
Nomination of Doctoral Committee must be submitted and approved by the Graduate Division at least two weeks prior to taking your Oral Qualifying/Prospectus examination.
Please inform the MAE Student Affairs Office when your exam is scheduled at least two weeks prior.
5. Final Oral Examination (before scheduling exam,
review one last time the guidelines
on
Ph.D Nomination of Doctoral Committee)
Please inform Abel Lebon, MAE Student Affairs Officer, when your exam is scheduled at least two weeks prior.
6. Dissertation Guidelines
7. Complete MAE Exit Survey
PhD requirements for taking the Oral Qualifying/Prospectus and Final Oral Examination.
The Following forms must be submitted and approved by both the Graduate Division and the MAE Department two weeks prior to taking your Oral Qualifying or Final Oral Examination.
Program of Study
Oral Qualifying Nomination of Doctoral Committee
Preliminary Examination Scheduling Notification
Final Oral Examination Scheduling Notification
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA