Resources for Students | MAE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Resources for Students
Make connections with Handshake
Handshake is a platform that connects talented Bruins with internships, jobs and career opportunities.
Use Handshake to find workshops, events and other career development programs hosted by the UCLA Career Center.
Log in to Handshake.
Job Postings and Fellowships for MAE Graduate and Undergraduate Students
Faculty and post-doctoral positions (Ph.D. only)
Non-academic positions (Ph.D., M.S. primarily)
Industry/government/other positions (B.S., M.S. primarily)
Fellowships
Graduate Student Financial Support Handbook
Undergraduate Research Experience
Job Resource Center (external site)
Databases and Listings of Fellowships
UCLA GRAPES database
Do Your Own Search
— Use the search services listed below to perform your own search.
COS – Community of Science
The COS database of funding opportunities contains information from federal and regional governments, foundations, professional societies, associations, and corporations. The COS database is updated daily.
GrantForward
GrantForward uses specialized data-crawling technology to constantly update our extensive database of sponsors and funding opportunities, allowing thousands of grant opportunities to be gathered from over 9,000 US Sponsors. Every grant opportunity is thoroughly analyzed and then verified by our team of specialists to ensure accuracy.
SPIN – Sponsored Programs Information Network
SPIN includes both Federal and Non-Federal funding opportunities, as well as selected RFPs from the Commerce Business Daily and InfoEd’s Federal Register Weekly Reference Guide. SPIN is updated daily.
GRADFELLOW-L listserv
Email will NO longer be used to answer questions from Students or Prospective students
. Instead, please use MyUCLA Message Center:
Those
with
UCLA logon ID
:
https://sa.ucla.edu/MessageCenter/OneStop/Home/PostMessage
Those
lacking
UCLA logon ID:
https://sa.ucla.edu/MessageCenter/OneStop/Public/Form?orgCode=0205
MAE Graduate Student Services:
Abel Lebon
, Graduate Student Affairs Officer
Annie Lee
, Graduate Student Affairs Officer
Overview
The Mechanical and Aerospace Graduate Student Affairs Office at UCLA Samueli School of Engineering offers a complete range of services for new and continuing M.S. and PhD students. To our approximately 350 graduate students, we provide academic counseling, admissions process assistance, and degree conferral requirements. We also administer the process of all fellowship funding.
Our mission is to educate the nation’s future leaders in science and art of mechanical and aerospace engineering. Further, we seek to expand the frontiers of engineering sciences and to encourage technological innovations while fostering academic excellence and scholarly learning in collegial environment.
MESSAGE TO INCOMING GRADUATE STUDENTS:
Welcome MAE Graduate Students!
This is a list of things to help you get settled as a graduate student at the University of California, Los Angeles. On behalf of the Mechanical and Aerospace Engineering faculty and staff, we wish you a successful Academic Year.
NEW STUDENTS CHECKLIST:
Academic Calendar & Deadlines
Directions to Campus
UCLA Housing
UCLA Parking
Office of International Students and Scholars (International Students)
106 Bradley Hall, 310-825-1681
(bring your I-20 and admission letter from Graduate Division)
Review the MS or PhD Program Requirements
Contact Your Graduate Advisor
MYUCLA
Register for classes, Update address/phone number/e-mail information on URSA
(or 310-208-0425)
Obtain your Bruin Card
Bruin card office: 121 Kerckoff Hall
(bring your admission letter from Graduate Division and photo ID)
Setup your
SEASnet
and/or
Bruin on-line
account
SEASnet Office: Boelter Hall 2684
Bruin On-line Office: Kerckhoff Hall, Suite 124
Administrative Support
Personnel and Payroll Services
Graduate Student Researcher Recipients, Processing support to Staff, Students, and Postdoctoral Fellows.
Equipment/Facilities Management
Space allocation
Parking services
Equipment management and rental
Room access keys
Telecommunications request
Facilities service requests
RECOMMENDED WEBSITES
Information for newly admitted graduate students
Resources for International Scholars
Courses
Positions for Graduate Students
Instructional Laboratories
Campus Maps
Campus Libraries
UCLA Orientation Handbook – A Guide for Entering UCLA Graduate Students
MS DEGREE GRADUATING STUDENT CHECKLIST:
PhD DEGREE GRADUATION CHECKLIST
Programs
Masters & Ph.D. Program Requirements
Undergraduate Program
ABET — Undergraduate Objectives and Outcomes
Undergraduate Admissions
BS Curriculum
Internship/Scholarship Offerings
Courses
Instructional Laboratories
UCLA’s General Graduate Program – Frequently Asked Questions
Major Field Committees
Forms & Procedures
Forms for Current Masters & Ph.D. Students
Masters and Ph.D. Programs Forms and Procedures
Masters
Program Study Plan
Advancement to Candidacy
Masters Comprehensive Form
Masters Committee Nomination
Reconstitution of Master Committee Nomination
Masters Filing Fee
Dissertation/Thesis Policies and Procedures
Masters Thesis Approval Form
Change of Advisor
Stipend
Bruin Direct Deposit
Masters Degree Objective
Enrollment Petition Form
Leave of Absence Form
Leave of Absence Extension
Ph.D.
Program Study Plan
Ph.D. Committee Nomination
Ph.D. Preliminary Exam / Oral Qualifying Exam
Reconstitution of Ph.D. Committee Nomination
Ph.D. Final Exam
Ph.D. Filing Fee
Dissertation/Thesis Policies and Procedures
Doctoral Dissertation Approval Form
Change of Advisor
Bruin Direct Deposit
Stipend
Program Profile Report
Enrollment Petition Form
Leave of Absence Form
Leave of Absence Extension
Positions for Students
UCLA Internships, Scholarships and Fellowships Page
Scholarships for MAE Juniors
MAE Student Recruitment Web
TOP Exam: Test of Oral Proficiency
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA