Medical School Alumni | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Alumni and Friends
Your Support Matters
SAVE THE DATE
Save the date for
DGSOM Reunions!
Classes of '74, '84, '94, '99 & '03 are invited to join us for a reunion celebration on Oct. 19.
Medical School Alumni and Friends Amplifying Good Work
Lifelong connections and inspirational partnerships strengthen our community.
All of our medical school graduates are welcomed as members of the Medical Alumni Association. Comprised of nearly 12,000 graduates who lead and transform health in the U.S. and around the globe, the MAA aims to support activities that connect alumni to each other, the school, and current medical school students.
Our expansive community of philanthropic partners empowers life-saving research, the pursuit of educational excellence, and our commitment to training the next generation of physician-leaders.
12K+
MA, MD, MD-PhD and PhD graduates
65%
Of our alumni currently live in California
$6.9M
Raised for student support during the school’s 70th anniversary
See more rankings
DGSOM Alumni Profiles
Honoring a Public Health Champion
LaMar Hasbrouck, M.D. ’94, has been selected as the recipient of the 2023 UCLA Award for Public Service, recognizing his more than 30 years of dedication to achieving health equity.
Read more about Dr. Hasbrouck
Two Paths Converge at UCLA
Drs. Jay ('00) and Madhu ('99) Agarwal met during medical school at UCLA. Twenty years later, their love for each other and UCLA remains strong.
A True Bruin Love Story
Celebrating Lifelong Community
A virtual 60th reunion gathering sparked a renewed sense of community for the Class of 1961. For the past two years, class members have continued to meet, reconnect over creative writing activities, search for class members, and curate archival content.
Explore the Class of '61's collection
Previous
Next
Community Partner Spotlight
L.A. Care provides full-ride scholarships aimed at elevating healthcare for vulnerable populations.
Visit L.A. Care
Stay Connected
We’ve created a digital directory for alumni to reconnect with each other. Share what you’ve been up to since graduating, along with photos and current contact information for people to...
Set Up Your Directory Page
Career Resources
Looking for CME courses or copies of transcripts and document verifications? Find more information here.
Document Requests
Make a Gift
Your support elevates the student experience, fuels life-saving research, and enhances innovative training experiences and programming.
Give today
Celebrating 70 Years
Take a look at some of the defining moments, people, and milestones that shaped us. Miss the celebrations? View recordings of our virtual events.
Learn More
Events
Meet the Team
Email
:
HSDMedicalEducation@mednet.ucla.edu
Office of Medical Education and Scholarship Programs
Emily McLaughlin
Senior Director of Development, Medical Education and Scholarship Programs
Samantha Varner
Director of Alumni Relations
Alison Wong
Associate Director of Development, Medical Education and Scholarship Programs
Betty Yee
Development Coordinator
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login