Center for Continuing Professional Development | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Center for Continuing Professional Development
Welcome to UCLA CCPD
Formerly known as UCLA CME, or UCLA Continuing Medical Education, the Center for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD) at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA supports the continuing education needs of the medical community by providing high-quality, evidence-based activities designed to narrow the professional practice gaps of its learners.
Learn More About CCPD
.
Join the Mailing List
Announcements
The Center for Continuing Professional Development
February 23, 2023
I am reaching out to you as the first Associate Dean of the Center for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD) to introduce the concept of our group, inform you of the changes that are occurring in the space of continuing medical education and invite your partnership.
The concept of continuing professional development (CPD) refers to the process of lifelong learning and self-improvement for healthcare professionals. This can include attending workshops, conferences, and seminars, participating in online courses and webinars, reading relevant literature and journals, and engaging in other activities that help to expand knowledge and skills in their field. The goal of CPD is to ensure that healthcare professionals stay up to date with the latest developments in their field and can provide the highest quality care to patients. The concept of professional development encompasses growth in the entirety of skills and knowledge needed to practice at the top of our profession. At the foundation is medical knowledge, addressed by continuing medical education but also continuous development of skills in leadership, ethics, health equity, care quality, management, and ethics. The CCPD will be the conduit for providing this content to our faculty and the medical community at large. Our vision is to be one of the national leaders in providing professional development content. The CCPD, in partnership with our most valued resource, the faculty of the David Geffen School of Medicine, will evolve over the next several years to build capacity and content to realize this vision.
Soon we will be reaching out to you, content experts across DGSOM and the larger UCLA community, to join us in the development of programming in both the live and virtual spaces. We look forward to your partnership on this journey!
Regards,
Charles C. Flippen II, MD
Associate Dean, Center for Continuing Professional Development
Office of the Vice Dean for Education
Live Courses
View all Continuing Education (CE) courses
Feb
24
Hybrid
Beyond Palliation: Exploring Transplantation Options for Fontan Patients
Luskin Conference Center
Event Date
February 24, 2024 | All day
Mar
01
In-Person
Cool Topics in Neonatology Symposium
Coronado Island Marriott Resort & Spa
Event Date
March 1, 2024 | 3
-
6:30pm
Upcoming
March 2, 2024 | 7am
-
4:30pm
+ more dates
Mar
02
Hybrid
CPQCC Improvement Palooza - A Roadmap to Community Engagement: Neonatal Equity and Advocacy
Coronado Island Marriott Resort & Spa
Event Date
March 2, 2024 | 7am
-
4:30pm
Upcoming
March 3, 2024 | 7am
-
12pm
+ more dates
Mar
01
Hybrid
49th Annual UCLA State-of-the-Art Urology Conference
UCLA
Event Date
March 1
-
3, 2024 | All day
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login