UCLA Cooperation with Intel
Using IXA to Support Router Security Enhancements
Intel
Corporation
Gifts and Grants
Funds and equipment to support research in computer security
2001 to 2005
Grants and
gifts from Intel Corporation's Network Processing Group Technology
Office afforded the
LASR
research group in UCLA's
Computer
Science Department
an opportunity to study the feasibility of
putting important security enhancements into high-speed routers. We
worked on  several research projects for DARPA and NSF that
involved altering router behavior to provide better security for the
Internet. These alterations would, in some cases, put new functionality
in the router¹s fast path. While we could study the general
feasibility of the approaches in other dimensions with our existing
equipment, determining whether a router could provide sufficiently fast
service when the security enhancements were in place required access to
a programmable router that could be altered to include the new
features. The IXA, especially the IXP 1200 models, was perfect for this
purpose.
We had two
ongoing projects along these lines, with the expectation of more
projects in the future. The DARPA-funded project,
D-Ward
,
involved combating DDoS attacks in routers close to attack sources.
Routers would observe the flow of packets through them and compare
flows to models of normal flows. Flows sufficiently outside the
behavior of normal flows would be suspected of being DDoS flows, and
would be carefully watched. If this careful observation indicated that
the flows were suspicious, the flows would be throttled, easing the
attack on the target and lessening the impact on the network as a
whole.
Under the
NSF-funded project,
SAVE
,
we developed a system capable of filtering out packets with forged IP
source addresses. This project relied on a new protocol that builds
proper tables of the appropriate incoming interfaces at a router for
packets with different sources. Because of asymmetries in the Internet,
the existing forwarding tables will not suffice. We used the SAVE
protocol to build incoming tables in addition to forwarding tables.
The
Intel-provided IXP equipment was also used to support graduate-level
classes in computer security. Student projects involved adding security
enhancements to the routers, such as firewall capabilities,
authenticated routing protocols, automated attack traceback facilities
and other network security features.