Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
At UCLA, the postdoctoral experience emphasizes scholarship and continued mentored research training for individuals who have recently completed a doctoral degree. Postdoctoral scholars conduct research under the general oversight of a faculty mentor in preparation for a career position in academe, industry, government, or the non-profit sector.
As a postdoctoral scholar, you contribute to the academic community by enhancing UCLA’s research and education programs. You bring expertise and creativity that enrich the research environment for all members of the UCLA community, including graduate and undergraduate students. UCLA strives to provide a stimulating, positive, and constructive experience for postdoctoral scholars, by emphasizing the mutual commitment and responsibility of the institution, the faculty, and the postdoctoral scholar.
Represented Titles
The
International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) Local 5810
is the exclusive representative of postdoctoral scholars at the University of California (UC). Individuals in the following titles are in this systemwide PX bargaining unit:
Postdoctoral Scholar-Employee (3252)
Postdoctoral Scholar-Fellow (3253)
Postdoctoral Scholar-Paid Direct (3254)
Postdoctoral Scholar-Employee NEX (3255)
Interim Postdoctoral Scholar-Employee (3256)
Policy
The
UC-UAW PX contract
defines the terms and conditions of employment for all UC postdoctoral scholars.
Highlights of the UC-UAW PX contract include:
Appointment Policy Highlights
Health Benefits Policy Highlights and Procedure
Retirement Benefits Policy Highlights
Leaves Policy Highlights
Postdoc Childcare Reimbursement Program – Please contact your department administrator for more information
Postdoc Childcare Reimbursement Form
Postdoc Childcare Reimbursement Info Sheet
Procedures
Contact your department administrator if you have any questions regarding postdoctoral scholar procedure forms or documents. Most documents will be routed to your email address via DocuSign.
Appointment Paperwork
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.