Campus Services and Resources | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Campus Services and Resources
COVID-19 Resources:
COVID-19 FAQ for Postdoctoral Scholars
UCLA COVID-19 and Vaccine Resources
Concerns about Return to Campus for Research FAQs
Academic Personnel Guidance Regarding COVID-19 Related Leaves
General Campus Resources
Obtaining Access to University Facilities
Obtain a
UCLA BruinCard
for access to University privileges and facilities. You can get your BruinCard by taking photo identification and your welcome letter (sent to you upon approval of your postdoctoral appointment) to 123 Kerckhoff Hall. The BruinCard also can be used as a debit card all over campus.
Library Privileges
Postdoctoral scholars are entitled to the use of all the libraries on campus and the BruinCard functions as the library card. To activate the BruinCard for library access, present it at the Young Research Library, College Library, or the Biomedical Library.
Laboratory and Office Facilities
Within University policy, postdoctoral scholars may be granted use of laboratory and other University facilities at the discretion of the departments involved. In many departments, however, space is limited and offices cannot be provided.
Faculty Center Privileges
UCLA postdoctoral scholars are eligible to become members and use the services of the UCLA Faculty Center. All staff employed by the University at least 50% of full time are eligible for membership. All staff membership dues are $25.00 per month. All bills are due and payable on the fifteenth day of each month. A service charge will be added to all delinquent balances. All changes (e.g. retirement, resignation, change of status or address) must be reported in writing. Dues will continue to accrue until written notification is received and the member will be liable for any accumulated charges. Each account must be tied to a valid credit card on file. Postdoctoral scholars are encouraged to visit the front office at the
Faculty Center
for a membership application.
Auditing Courses and Seminars
Postdoctoral scholars are not students, therefore they do not pay fees nor do they register with the Office of the Registrar. With the exception of summer school classes, postdoctoral scholars may audit courses and seminars with the consent of the instructor.
No academic credit is given.
If scholars wish to take regular University courses and receive credit, they are required to seek admission to the University and pay the normal student registration fees; status as a postdoctoral scholar is then terminated.
Employee & Labor Relations Information
The University of California is committed to an university environment that provides equal opportunity and promotes a diversity of backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences among faculty, staff, postdoc and the student body. UCLA strives to have an inclusive, supportive environment that provides postdoctoral training opportunities and maximizes and values the potential of all postdocs.
For general employment-related concerns (vacation, payroll, reasonable accommodations, leaves, benefits) regarding your postdoctoral scholar appointment, please contact your Human Resources representative.
For questions about grievances, mediation, layoffs, corrective action, dismissal and other labor-relations concerns, please contact your union representative.
International Scholar Resources
UCLA students and postdoctoral scholars from abroad are encouraged to visit the
Dashew Center for International Students and Scholars
. The Dashew Center provides assistance with visa and immigration issues, counseling, and offers many workshops and programs.
If you are a postdoctoral scholar in the David Geffen School of Medicine, please contact the
Visa & Licensing Office
at the School of Medicine for J-1 visa inquiries.
Union Representation
Learn about postdoctoral scholar union representation in the UC system. Also, explore the current collective bargaining contract governing postdoctoral appointments.
UCLA Transportation Commute Options
Learn about UCLA Transportation’s programs and discounts available to postdoctoral scholars for commute options including walking, biking, public transit, vanpool, carpool, and more!
Wellness Resources
Gym Membership
Postdoctoral scholars at UCLA are eligible for a discounted membership to UCLA Recreation’s gym facilities on campus.
FitWell Courses
As UCLA staff, postdocs are also eligible to participate in the UCLA Recreation FITWELL Program. Take a Fit Break, or participate in Bruin Mindfit to maintain healthy balance in your work life.
MARC Guided Meditation
The UCLA Mindful Awareness Research Center (MARC) offers free drop-in meditations at various locations across campus during the week. Open to anyone interested in learning how to “live more presently.”
Staff & Faculty Counseling Center
UCLA’s Staff and Faculty Counseling Center (SFCC) offers a range of services, including confidential counseling, coaching, training, support groups and community resource referrals.
UCLA Interactive Campus Map (with Gender Inclusive Restroom and Lactation Room filters)
UCLA Interactive Campus Map helps you locate UCLA buildings, restaurants, shopping, residence halls, sports venues, theaters, points of interest, and much more. Detailed information and photographs for most locations are available.
All Gender Restroom Map
Lactation Room Map
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.