Finances | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Finances
Financial Services and Resources
Postdoctoral Fellowship Tax and Imputed Income Information
Tax and imputed income withholding information for Postdoctoral Scholars.
Retirement Savings Program Information for Safe Harbor Participants
For those postdoctoral scholars who contribute, learn how the UC’s Safe Harbor Retirement Savings Program works.
Defined Contribution (DC) Retirement Plan Information
Information on UC’s defined contribution retirement plans, for postdoctoral scholars eligible to participate.
Guide to ROTH IRA Conversion Rollovers
Information on how to rollover to a ROTH IRA from the DCP after-tax account, for postdoctoral scholars eligible to participate.
Funding Opportunities & Resources
Learn about funding opportunities and resources open to postdoctoral scholars at UCLA.
Direct Deposit Information for Fellows
BruinDirect Deposit is available through MyUCLA and strongly encouraged for all recipients of fellowship awards and traineeships.
Deferral of Student Loans
Many, if not most, lending agencies do not recognize postdoctoral scholar status for deferral of student loans because postdoctoral trainees are not considered the equivalent of registered, full-time students.
The Graduate Division will sign student loan deferral forms for scholars and provide a letter outlining the dates of appointment and the UC definition of a postdoctoral scholar.
The guaranteeing agency is then responsible for determining if the appointment meets its deferral criteria.
Before making the request for Loan Deferments, please print out the loan deferment forms from your lending agency, fill out the personal information and drop them off at 1255 Murphy Hall, MC: 142801. The Graduate Division does not mail out the forms on your behalf; please make arrangements to come back and pick them up when notified that they are ready. Processing time will take 5-7 business days.
Insurance for Travelers
All University travelers, including employees, medical residents, students, and fellows, are covered worldwide, 24 hours a day, for a wide variety of accidents and incidents while on official travel status. The coverage includes accidental death, accidental dismemberment, paralysis, and permanent total disability. The coverage also includes travel assistance services when the traveler is 100+ miles from his or her home or headquarters, such as:
Security extraction (security extraction is not subject to mileage limitation),
Emergency medical evacuation and repatriation,
Repatriation of remains,
Out-of-country medical,
Loss of personal effects (employees only), and
Other travel assistance services.
Registration for Travel Outside of California
Travelers must register all out-of-state and foreign country business trips to ensure coverage. Booking travel through Connexxus’ preferred travel agencies and supported online booking tools, with the exception of SWABIZ (Southwest) automatically enrolls the traveler in the insurance program for travel outside of California; otherwise the traveler must register on the
Risk Services
website and complete the Traveler Insurance form before an out-of-state trip occurs.Registration is not required for travel within California as coverage is automatic.
Jewish Free Loan
Jewish Free Loan is a non-profit offering interest-free loans to LA and Ventura county residents on a non-sectarian basis since 1904. Loans range from $500 to $100,000 and can help with emergencies such as rent/mortgage and utility bills, car repairs, car purchase, medical and dental bills, moving costs, loans for home healthcare, fertility treatment and adoption, small businesses, and more. Loans are also available to aid victims of recent fires, the LAUSD strike, and the government shutdown.
Requirements include
: 1-2 guarantors with good credit (680+); Guarantor(s) must have a steady income; Guarantor(s) must be 25 years or older; Guarantor(s) must be a resident of California.
To begin the application
process go to
www.jfla.org
and click on “Apply Now” to complete a “pre-loan application”.
Verification of Employment
UCPath uses The Work Number to provide automated employment and income verification for UC employees, including postdoctoral scholars. If you are applying for a loan, an apartment, or job, your employment verifier (e.g. bank, leasing agent, or employer) can access your employment information through The Work Number website. Visit UCPath for more information. (UCLA Certificate of Postdoctoral Study is not an employment verification document.)
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.