Moving to LA | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Moving to LA
Housing Resources
Housing Resources
Postdoctoral scholars are eligible to reside in University Apartments, but are not guaranteed a space. You become eligible only after demand from graduate and professional students has been met.
Family Resources
UCLA Early Care and Education (ECE)
UCLA Early Care and Education (ECE) professionals foster the development of children and create a strong foundation for lifelong learning by providing developmentally appropriate education and quality care, support for families and resources for the community.
Child Care Resources for UCLA Faculty, Staff, and Students
List of UCLA-affiliated child care resources; in-person and virtual “bubble” supports; and additional child care and resources in the community. Most resources open to staff are also open to postdoctoral scholars; please verify eligibility directly with specific providers.
Postdoctoral Scholars Child Care Resources (Updated 2021)
Due to limited space and long waiting lists, parents with preschool age children are encouraged to call the preschool or childcare program they are interested in prior to arrival at UCLA. The costs, eligibility criteria, quality, and philosophy vary for each program. We offer this information regarding child care resources as a courtesy to you. With the exception of UCLA Early Care and Education, the Students with Dependents Program, the Bruin Resource Center, and UCLA do not endorse any of the child care providers or schools included in the resource guide. Please be sure to thoroughly research any schools/child care providers before choosing a child care facility or school for your child(ren).
Students With Dependents Program
Provides resources available to parenting students or students with dependents at UCLA. Some resources open to students are also open to postdoctoral scholars; please verify eligibility directly with specific providers.
Supporting Nursing Mothers at Work
UCLA is committed to the health and well-being of its community members. If you or your partner need support during your pregnancy or accommodations upon returning to work or school, you are encouraged to connect with available campus services.
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.