Information for New Postdoctoral Scholars | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Information for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Get Connected!
There are a number of ways to
connect to the postdoctoral scholar community
at UCLA. Among the most effective ways to learn about events and information relevant to your postdoctoral appointment is to sign up for the
UCLA Postdoctoral Scholar Mailing List
.
Mandatory New Postdoctoral Scholar Orientation
Join us on the first Tuesday of every month (see orientation dates below) from 4:00 PM to 5:00 PM in MacDonald Research Laboratories (MRL) Room 1-441
for the New Postdoctoral Scholar Orientation
(675 Charles E Young Drive South, L
os Angeles
,
CA
90095
)
. Please note that the orientation is
mandatory for all new postdoctoral scholars
.
Postdocs who have already attended an orientation do not need to attend.
If you cannot attend this orientation,
please complete this form
to schedule a make-up time for your mandatory union orientation.
The orientation will include a Q&A regarding campus resources and a brief presentation by the Postdoctoral Association (PDA at UCLA). Postdoc representatives from the postdoc union (
UAW Local 5810
) will answer questions about the postdoctoral contract and union membership.
2024 Orientation Dates (more dates to be announced soon)
January 9 (Date adjusted because of Winter Closure)
February 6
March 5
Subscribe to our
UCLA Postdoctoral Scholar Mailing List
for announcements about upcoming orientations!
Orientation Resources
UCLA Postdoc Policy: Top 10 Most Frequently Asked Postdoc Questions
(recording)
UCLA Postdoc Campus Resources: Joining the UCLA Community, Part 1
(recording)
UCLA Postdoc Campus Resources: Joining the UCLA Community, Part 2
(recording)
UC Postdoctoral Scholar Benefits Program 2022
(recording)
If you have any questions about the orientation, please contact
askgrad@grad.ucla.edu
.
Appointment Paperwork and Information
For information about required paperwork associated with your postdoctoral appointment, please view the
Appointment Procedures
page and contact your Department Administrator. For information about your appointment, please view the
Appointment Policy and Procedures
page.
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.