Reporting Options | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Reporting Options
Postdoctoral Scholar Employee and Labor Relations
The University of California is committed to an university environment that provides equal opportunity and promotes a diversity of backgrounds, perspectives, and experiences among faculty, staff, postdocs and the student body.
UCLA strives to have an inclusive, supportive environment and supportive community that provides postdoctoral training opportunities and maximizes and values the potential of all postdocs.
For general employment-related concerns (vacation, payroll, reasonable accommodations, leaves, benefits) regarding your postdoctoral scholar appointment, please contact your Human Resources representative.
For questions about grievances, mediation, layoffs, corrective action, dismissal and other labor-relations concerns, please contact your union representative.
Postdoctoral Scholars Union Representation Information
Postdoctoral Scholars play a dual role as fellows engaged in mentored advanced training and as employees or fellows contributing to UCLA’s research programs.
Under the Higher Education Employer-Employee Relations Act (HEERA), employees have the right to organize and form a collective bargaining unit. In November 2008, the International Union, United Automobile, Aerospace and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) was recognized as the exclusive representative of UC postdoctoral scholars. The unit includes postdoctoral scholars at all campuses.
Postdoctoral Scholars at the University of California are exclusively represented by the United Automobile, Aerospace, and Agricultural Implement Workers of America (UAW) and its Local Union 5810. The Union’s (UAW Local 5810) website is
http://uaw5810.org/
. A copy of the collective bargaining agreement (CBA) between the University of California and the UAW is available at
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
. Please complete the Membership Election Form available at
http://uaw5810.org/
.
Contract Information
Collective Bargaining contract
Union Information
UCOP Information on the Postdoctoral Scholars Unit
Frequently Asked Questions About Union Representation
Union access to the workplace
Existing Bargaining Units
Collective Bargaining Frequently Asked Questions
Notice: University policies, procedures and applicable collective bargaining agreements shall supersede information in this document or elsewhere on this site.
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.