Jobs at UCLA Library | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
About Us
Jobs at UCLA Library
Jobs at UCLA Library
We believe in advancing our mission through our most valuable resource — our people.
More Information
Find Your Place With Us
We recruit, develop and retain a talented and diverse workforce in a culture that embraces mutual respect and excellence. If we're echoing your values, then the UCLA Library may be the place for you.
We Engage Our People
We keep employees informed and connected and also invest in employee development and training.
We Work As a Team
Teamwork fosters an inclusive environment which builds great synergy and trust among colleagues.
We Believe in Excellence
Excellence is about setting a high standard and building on our strengths.
Job Listings
about
Staff and Academic Jobs
Be part of a culture that empowers people to work in new and innovative ways. Find a place on our team!
about
Student Opportunities
The UCLA Library employs more than 500 part-time student employees. Search our student job listings to find one that is the right fit for you!
Benefits of Belonging
People are what make UC great
UC strives to take good care of its employees and their families with good benefits, a stimulating and supportive work environment and opportunities for professional growth and advancement. UC's benefits are recognized as being among the best available with a wide array of health and retirement plans, including a generous pension. With so many options, UC employees thrive in all stages of their working life and beyond.
Here are some of the ways UC has its people covered:
Medical, Dental and Vision Coverage
Paid Holidays, Sick Leave and Vacation
Life, Accident and Disability Insurance
UC Retirement Pension (UCRP)
Tax Savings Flexible Spending Account and Retirement Savings Program
Childcare and Early Childhood Education Programs
ScholarShare 529 College Savings Plan
Pet Insurance
Training and Development
UC Wellness Program
Benefits are fully portable within the UC system. Certain eligibility conditions must be met to qualify for all benefits. Learn more at
Campus Human Resources
(opens in a new tab)
.
Additional Resources
default
UCLA Campus Human Resources
Employee resources, personnel policies and portals to campus services and resources.
default
UCnet
UC systemwide employee resources including health plans, retirement benefits and benefits eligibility.
Get in Touch
Contact Library Human Resources with your employment questions. Email us using the button below or call us at (310) 825-7947.
Email Us
Email Us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use