Student Opportunities | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
About
Student Opportunities
Student Opportunities
The UCLA Library employs more than 500 part-time student employees. Search our student job listings to find one that is the right fit for you!
jobs-hr@library.ucla.edu
(310) 825-7947
Student Jobs
JOB #RAMS05
Senior Clerk
Resource Acquisitions and Metadata Services
$18.06
JOB #IS0005
Senior Clerk
International and Area Studies
$18.06
Charles E. Young Research Library
JOB #FTVA01
Student Assistant III
Film & Television Archive
$17.30
Student Internships
No positions available at this time
Awards, Grants, and Fellowships
Film Poster Design Contest for Students in the UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture
The UCLA Film & Television Archive is looking for student artists to create a film poster that shows their unique interpretation of the newly restored film Smog (1962) by Franco Rossi.
Library Prize for Undergraduate Research
The Library Prize for Undergraduate Research recognizes and honors excellence in undergraduate research at UCLA.
Center for Primary Research and Training
Learn how the Center for Primary Research and Training (CFPRT) pairs scholars with UCLA Library Special Collections projects that match their passions and interests.
Hugo and Christine Davise Fund for Contemporary Music
The Hugo and Christine Davise Fund for Contemporary Music is administered by the Music Library to support contemporary music in a wide variety of ways.
UCLA Library Special Collections Research Fellowships Program
The Library provides funding for on-site graduate-level, post-doctoral or independent research with Library Special Collections materials.
Associated Topics
About Student Jobs
The UCLA Library system offers jobs to more than 500 part-time student employees. Find out how you can join our team.
Staff and Academic Jobs
Be part of a culture that empowers people to work in new and innovative ways. Find a place on our team!
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use