Truffles
Truffles
Secure Flexible File-Sharing Over Wide-Area
Networks
Computer users benefit greatly from being
able to
work cooperatively, but they are often limited by constraints of
geography,
administrative boundaries, and the existing state of distributed
systems.
Sharing data and setting up shared environments across networks like
the
Internet are difficult tasks. The only tools available are primitive
and
offer limited functionality. Most cooperation between geographically or
administratively distant areas is performed solely through electronic
mail.
The goal of the Truffles projects was to
improve the
tools available for cooperative work. The first such tool addressed by
Truffles was file-sharing. Since much data is stored as files, the
ability
to share such data flexibly and securely will greatly facilitate the
performance
of cooperative work. A file-sharing tool for this environment must
handle
some difficult problems, such as secure transport of data, limited
trust
between the sharing parties, failures of the communications media
between
partners, difficulty of setting up the shared environment, and
performance
issues.
Truffles addressed these problems by
marrying two existing
technologies: Trusted Information Systems' (TIS) Privacy Enhanced Mail
(PEM) and UCLA's Ficus optimistically replicated file system. PEM
allows
secure, authenticated, reliable setup services. Ficus addresses issues
of availability of the data and performance by keeping data local. The
Truffles project extended these services and created new software to
deal
with some of the problems discussed previously. The Truffles code can
be
downloaded
.
The diagram above illustrates a Truffles
system working
over the Internet. Three different sets of files are being shared among
four sites spread across the country. One set of files is being shared
between UCLA and ISI, another between UCLA, DARPA, and TIS's Maryland
office,
and a third between DARPA and TIS. The systems involved in each
relationship
can access the files they share, but not the files shared with any
other
system. Thus, ISI cannot access the files UCLA shares with TIS and
DARPA.
Truffles was designed to improve
portability, add new
services to support cooperative work, verify the security of code, and
develop an understanding of limited trust in distributed systems.
Truffles (contract N00174-92-C-0128) and
it's follow-on
research effort, User-Level Truffles (contract DABT63-95-C-0008) were
funded
entirely by DARPA/ITO.
Date: September 2005
Technical Contact: Peter Reiher
(reiher@cs.ucla.edu)
WWW Contact: Janice Martin
(jjmartin@cs.ucla.edu)