Virtual Tours | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Virtual Tours
Onsite Tours
Looking to take a physical tour? See additional options for tours narrated by current UCLA student tour guides.
Learn More
Welcome to UCLA
The life you were meant to lead
Where creative thinking meets vibrant communities.
Chase breakthroughs, unleash discoveries, and find your people at a nationally ranked medical school, on a vibrant campus, in one of the most diverse cities in the world.
South Campus Tours
At UCLA, whether you are looking for sun-soaked study spaces or a broad spectrum of training sites and opportunities we have you covered. On the southern side of campus, you'll find California's #1 ranked hospital and a community that cares about equity, with an easy walk to Westwood village that all unfolds into a bright, buzzing city.
Hospital Tour
Take a tour through our academic medical center with a few of our residents leading the way.
Geffen Hall Tour
Follow along with a few of our medical students to take a tour of our state-of-the-art learning and lounging spaces.
We get to learn from the top people in their own fields.
Dr. Brittany Harrison, Chief Resident, Interventional Radiology
Your Virtual Tour Guides
Hear From MD Students
UCLA in a Word
We asked current students to describe their experience at UCLA in one word.
Lead the Pack
Hear current students talk about leadership opportunities and student organizations.
Your Peers
Caring deeply about the people around them is a mantra for our community.
What's it Like?
Want to know what living in LA is actually like? Hear it from those who are already here.
Your Virtual Tour Guides
Hear From Residents and Fellows
Clinical Range
Training here helps you balance a range of clinical settings. Listen to our folks tell you how.
Living in LA
Hear from the folks who are already here, why they love it, and what you might explore.
Resident Life
It's only fair to hear firsthand about the community you'd be joining from the people already in it.
Your time is precious
We have housing for that, tailored to your unique needs.
Some options are centrally located, so you can easily stroll from Westwood Village to the hospital, the medical school, or north campus. Other options are slightly farther out, but still only a short bus ride away from campus. Either way, we set you up to save your gas money for better things.
Weyburn Terrace
Centrally located, you can easily stroll from Westwood Village to the hospital, the medical school, or north campus. Pro-tip: the Bruin Bus stops out front and will take you directly...
Explore More
The Boulevard
Slightly farther off campus, but not by much. From the central pool and spa area to the indoor club lounge, and business center, gathering with your friends and colleagues has...
Explore More
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login