Campus Resources | Support & Reporting | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Support and Reporting
UCLA has a robust system of reporting and support resources
Navigate the different options available to you, which range from confidential counseling and anonymous reporting to mental health support and emergency services.
Getting Started
The best place to start with questions.
MD Students
Generally, the best place to start with questions is with your program director, Assistant Dean,
Student Affairs
, or a trusted mentor.
If you have experienced or witnessed mistreatment (physical mistreatment, abusive expression, power abuse, psychological cruelty, sexual harassment, and/or discrimination) we encourage you to complete the Mistreatment Incident Reporting Form (MIRF)
here
.
Graduate Trainees
Generally, the best place to start with questions is with a trusted mentor, program director,
Graduate Programs in Bioscience leader
, or academic dean.
If you have experienced or witnessed mistreatment (physical mistreatment, abusive expression, power abuse, psychological cruelty, sexual harassment, and/or discrimination) we encourage you to complete the Mistreatment Incident Reporting Form (MIRF)
here
.
Residents and Fellows
Generally, the best place to start with questions is with a trusted supervisor, program director, or department chief.
If you have experienced or witnessed mistreatment (physical mistreatment, abusive expression, power abuse, psychological cruelty, sexual harassment, and/or discrimination) we encourage you to complete the Mistreatment Incident Reporting Form (MIRF)
here
.
Postdoctoral Scholars
Generally, the best place to start with questions is with a trusted supervisor or program director.
If you have experienced or witnessed mistreatment (physical mistreatment, abusive expression, power abuse, psychological cruelty, sexual harassment, and/or discrimination) we encourage you to complete the Mistreatment Incident Reporting Form (MIRF)
here
.
Faculty and Staff
Generally, the best place to start with questions is with a trusted supervisor, director, or department chief.
Note
: Under certain circumstances, specific UCLA employees are required to report discrimination and harassment to an investigative office
See section VII.A
coronavirus
COVID-19
Up-to-date information
medical_services
Emergency Contacts
Help lines and emergency services
diversity_3
Support
Find support resources
flag
Reporting
Report an incident
Confidential and Anonymous Resources
Beyond these contacts, you may be looking for an informal, anonymous, or confidential setting to seek advice, share concerns, or submit a report to an investigating body.
Confidential
Behavioral Wellness Center (BWC)
Campus Assault Resources and Education (CARE)
UCLA Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)
UCLA Ombuds Services
UCLA Staff and Faculty Counseling Center
UCLA Student Legal Services
Anonymous
UCLA Health Physician and Faculty Wellness Program
Title IX Office Public Incident Reporting
Additional Resources
UCLA Police Department Reporting Line:
(310) 794-5824
Emotional Support Check-in Request Line
:
(310) 903-8854
UCLA Compliance/Whistleblower Hotline:
(800) 296-7188
UCLA Compliance Help Line
:
(800) 403-4744
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login