The Office of Research and Innovation | UCLA School of Nursing
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
Alumni
Students
The Office of Research and Innovation
The ORI faculty and staff functions cooperatively and have expertise in statistics, methods, measures and all facets of pre- and post-award grants management. The ORI
provides a comprehensive range of services and resources for faculty and trainees
.
Our research and scholarly activities are supported by several mechanisms including the extensive resources of UCLA, the
Clinical and Translational Science Institute
(CTSI); and the department of Veterans Affairs Greater Los Angeles Healthcare System. The majority of our nurse scientists are engaged in interdisciplinary research; collaborating with other scientists in anesthesiology, cardiology, oncology, psychology, anthropology and engineering.
Meet our Faculty and Staff
Dr. Dong Sung An
Associate Dean of Research & Innovation
Faculty Profile
Nancy Pike, PhD, RN, CPNP-AC/PC, FAHA, FAAN
Professor; Director of Research
Mary-Lynn Brecht, PhD
Adjunct Professor; Principal Statistician
Angela Cortes
Director of Contracts & Grants
Rio Borja Cruz
Fund Manager
Omar Torres
Fund Manager
Nipa Warda, MS
Principal Statistician
Grant Services and Resources
The ORI offers a comprehensive suite of services designed to support faculty and students throughout the life-cycle of a grant. The ONR provides statistics support, conducts mock reviews, leads Café Brainstorm, offers guidance with regulatory compliance, promotes collaboration between faculty and students of all levels and encourages innovative, translational research.
Building Robust Funding Sources
The UCLA School of Nursing’s robust research portfolio boasts a wide range of funding mechanisms from NIH and private foundations. Research at the School of Nursing is conducted through school-supported and grant-funded opportunities. Faculty research is supported through a pilot grant program, major research awards, and the
University’s significant resources
.
Fostering Collaboration
Dedicated to continually expanding and strengthening the School of Nursing’s community knowledge base, the ORI offers Faculty Innovation Forums and Lunch and Learn seminars spotlighting research topics of interest to better inform investigators across all levels of expertise. Additionally, the ORI connects the School of Nursing’s investigators with a broad network of multidisciplinary research colleagues so they can capitalize on overlapping areas of exploration with partners throughout the UCLA community. The ORI acts as a central liaison to the National Clinician Scholar’s Program (link) providing outstanding interdisciplinary post-doctoral fellowships.
Innovations
Innovations in research today include new technologies, machine learning, artificial intelligence, and genomics and nursing has a wonderful history of ideas that positively impact human health. Who better represents innovation in healthcare than nurses with leading edge ideas to advance health? The evolution of nursing as a profession of highly educated clinicians and scientists presents nursing with an excellent opportunity to be innovative in their research, implementation, and evidence to support best practices.
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Tiverton Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
sonsaff@sonnet.ucla.edu
Information
Faculty Directory
Nursing at UCLA Health
Useful Links
Current Student Website
SON Intranet
IT Support
SON Email
eValue Login
Getting Around
Campus Map
Parking Information
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login