Improving Campus Culture | CNS | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Culture Journey
Culture change is a slow and organic process.
It takes patience, optimism, and an active effort, every day, from every member of our organization.
Every time we choose to live by the Cultural North Star, we take one step closer to building and sustaining a inclusive, mission-driven culture.
Culture Audit
At the David Geffen School of Medicine (DGSOM), we believe that a positive, team-oriented culture is not only critical to our ability to achieve our mission, but also vital to our well-being and cohesion as a community.
To enhance our existing culture and improve our strategic impact, the Dean’s Office launched a year-long culture audit in 2017. More than 1,000 DGSOM staff, faculty, trainees, and students participated in a school-wide survey, focus groups, and one-on-one interviews, sharing valuable insights into the strengths of our current culture, as well as key priorities moving forward.
The culture audit revealed three consistent themes
More transparent and compassionate communication.
Greater diversity, in all its forms.
Enhanced collaboration.
These themes led to the development of the Cultural North Star, three pillars and 12 purpose statements that unite us in our shared mission, set clear and high expectations for our actions and interactions, and help facilitate problem-solving, decision-making, and collaboration.
Together, these core principles represent our collective commitment to our mission and each other, serving as a daily guide for the decisions we make, the goals we set, and the work we do.
Do What’s Right
We are united by our shared mission of advancing science and medicine
We work together to eliminate inequity
We are grounded in ethics and data
We balance the short and long term effects of our actions
Make Things Better
We come to work to make an impact
We are constantly curious
We seek out diverse voices
We embrace failures as opportunities to learn
Be Kind
We are strongest when we show empathy
We have the courage to be honest
We listen to understand
We engage in dialogue even when we disagree
Milestones
R and D (2017 – 2019): Research and Development
Capture and analyze qualitative and quantitative data from in-depth interviews, focus groups and a school-wide survey
Culture audit informs development of the Cultural North Star
Leadership pressure testing (early experimentation and refinement; identified implications, uncertainties and real-life applications)
Development of marketing and communications plans
Phase I (2019 – 2021): Internal Awareness + Programming
Launch coordinated internal marketing and communications campaign
Identify strategic integration opportunities and implement evidence-based practices in key areas: medical education curricula, professional development, rewards and recognitions, orientation and onboarding, recruitment, and HR and Academic Affairs assessments
Collect feedback and iterate (quarterly surveys)
Phase II (2021): Continuous Improvement + External Campaign
Continuous improvement and iteration of programs
Launch external campaign + partnerships
Phase III (2022 and Beyond): Scale + Iterate
Scale successful pilots
Expand HR and Academic Affairs strategy
Develop accountability components
Develop external marketing and communications campaign
FAQ
How will the Cultural North Star be brought to life?
After 18 months of research and development, the Cultural North Star launched in May 2019. Since then, the Dean’s Office has been working with staff, faculty, students and trainees from across our academic and medical enterprise to develop and pilot a range of Cultural North Star programs and practices that – over time – will be embedded in the fabric of our organization.
How are we measuring success?
The overarching goals of the Cultural North Star are very broad and relate to each pillar of the DGSOM’s mission. Over the long term, success will be reflected in increased employee engagement (measured by a Employee Net Promoter Score), decreased turnover and an increase in collaboration and collegiality across the board. These metrics, as well as Cultural North Star awareness and engagement, will be measured quarterly through a pulse survey. Longitudinal data from the quarterly survey will allow us to assess change over time and pivot Cultural North Star programming in response to trends. As the Cultural North Star gains awareness and traction, we expect these – and other mission-related metrics – to improve.
Review results from our surveys:
First Survey (July 2019) (PDF)
Second Survey (November 2019) (PDF)
Third Survey (October 2020)(PDF)
How does the Cultural North Star fit into UCLA’s larger cultural ecosystem?
Many of our colleagues, partners and leaders across campus are working tirelessly to help UCLA and DGSOM meet our noble mission through cultural initiatives.
CICARE
UCLA Health Code of Conduct
DGSOM Office of Justice, Equity, and Diversity Inclusion
UCLA Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
Medical Education Societies
True Bruin Values
Looking to the Future
Over time, the Cultural North Star will be embedded in DGSOM’s organizational DNA.
Rewards, recognitions and leadership promotions
Orientation and onboarding
HR and Academic Affairs
Hiring, recruitment and search committees
MD curriculum
Professional development
And more!
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login