Changing Campus Culture | CNS | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Shared Commitment
Shared Commitment
The shared values of the DGSOM are expressed in the Cultural North Star, which was developed by members of our community and affirms our abiding commitment to doing what’s right, making things better, and being kind. These are the standards to which we hold ourselves and one another.
We are working to infuse every level of our organization with these principles and building a community around the values is our first step.
Cultural North Star in Action Grants
Cultural North Star values
help us build and maintain a positive, team-oriented culture, which is critical to our ability to achieve our mission and also vital to our well-being and cohesion as a community. Building upon the Cultural North Star Awards, the Cultural North Star in Action Grants (CNS Grants) are designed to operationalize our shared values by building community and fostering a shared understanding of the 12 CNS purpose statements. The CNS Grants will provide intentional opportunities to activate, educate, and empower change agents across the DGSOM.
Apply Today!
What is the ideal team composition for the CNS Grants?
There are no restrictions regarding the team composition other than members must be DGSOM faculty, staff, trainees & students that are current, emerging, or curious change agents:
Brimming with innovative ideas that need a launching pad.
Willing to operationalize the CNS pillars to co-create a positive, mission-driven culture.
Ready to mobilize and eager to build community by collaborating with other innovators in DGSOM.
When is the award period?
The award period will align with DGSOM’s fiscal year, beginning in July and ending in June.
What can the monies be used for?
The monies should be used to support the proposed work operationalizing the CNS pillars. Monies can only be utilized towards non-payroll expenses and within the award period. Eligible categories are listed below:
Development/Training
Food & Beverage
Guest Lecturers
Non-Cash Awards
Project Specific Office Type Supplies
Professional services
Other allowable costs
What is the time commitment expected of grantees?
In addition to time spent on the proposed work, grantees are expected to attend the following in-person mandatory events:
Orientation: July
Program overview and team building exercises.
Retreat: January
Report outs from grantee recipients and team building exercises.
Year in Review Celebration: June
Final report out from grantee recipients celebrating their accomplishments and lessons learned.
Grantees will also submit two mandatory virtual progress reports via Smartsheets as follows:
Virtual progress report #1: October
Virtual progress report #2: March
Does the proposed work need to part of my department's JEDI Plan or the Antiracism Roadmap?
Both departmental JEDI Plans and the DGSOM Antiracism Roadmap can offer helpful guidance for teams looking to operationalize our shared values. Applicants are welcome to utilize these resources as propose transformational projects that will help us along our journey towards co-creating a culture of justice, equity, diversity and inclusion in the DGSOM.
Is there support available if I have questions while working on my application?
Pre-award workshops will be held during February and March to provide educational resources and support to those interested in applying for the CNS Grants. In addition, these workshops will serve as opportunities for community building and near-peer mentorship to bolster change efforts across the DGSOM.
Map your actions to our guiding values
Incorporate CNS into:
Daily conversations
Emails and interactions
Decisions, big and small
Collaborations, within your team or across our organization
Make an individual pledge
Choose the pillars and share the action(s) you will take to bring CNS into your daily actions and interactions. Your commitment can inspire members of the DGSOM community to unite around our shared mission to heal humanity.
Make A Pledge
Try some Cultural North Star practices
Start team meetings by reading the Cultural North Star.
Take a Cultural North Star “time out” during crucial conversations.
Highlight the Cultural North Star throughout the recruitment and professional development process, such as in offers letters, interviews or awards.
Attend skill-building opportunities as they become available.
Recognize Someone
We all know those people who go above and beyond – who see a challenge as an opportunity, who remain kind and collaborative in the face of conflict, and who exemplify the Cultural North Star in their work, actions, and interactions. So take a moment to recognize them.
Grab a physical recognition card at one of our Cultural North Star recognition stands.
Recognize Someone
Join a Coffee with the Dean
Coffee with the Dean is an ongoing series of virtual sessions where 10 select members of the DGSOM community can engage in an open dialogue with Interim Dean Steven Dubinett on our culture, shared values, and diverse experiences.
Events
Be a brand ambassador
Post the Cultural North Star flyer in your work/study space.
Set the Cultural North Star as your desktop wallpaper.
Participate in Cultural North Star training opportunities.
Wear your DGSOM Cultural North Star lanyard.
For Cultural North Star marketing assets, visit the Downloads page.
Downloads
Stories define us, actions change us
"I look at the Cultural North Star pillars as a three-legged stool. I can measure my behavior against them at all times. When I’m writing an email, participating in a meeting or having a 1-1 conversation, I ask myself, ‘Am I Doing What’s Right?
"I have started using the Cultural North Star to address employee performance issues more directly, drawing on the principles that we are strongest when we show empathy and we have the courage to be honest. Even though those conversations are difficult
"The Cultural North Star has reframed my thinking about how I approach challenges. I’m working on remaining curious and listening to understand when I encounter a difficult situation.”
"When team members have differences of opinions, I am encouraging them to continue to engage in dialogue even though they disagree. This has begun to change the culture in our group, moving away from gossip and inefficiency to a more transparent
"I have started referencing the Cultural North Star at the beginning of my recurring committee meetings, reminding everyone to hold themselves and others accountable. I’ve noticed a huge difference in the way members of these committees interact
Previous
Next
Submit Your Story
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login