Simulated Online Pharmaceutical Image Editor | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
SOPHIE
Simulated Online Pharmaceutical Image Editor
Simulated Online Pharmaceutical Image Editor (SOPHIE)
Use Simulated Online Pharmaceutical Image Editor
Access SOPHIE
For UCLA Health or DGSOM students or employees, login using your Mednet credentials. For those outside the UCLA system, choose "Sign Up" and enter your information to set up an account.
IMSH 2016 SOPHIE Presentation Materials
You can find all of the information that was presented during our workshop
Creating a Simulated Pharmacy
at the International Meeting on Simulation in Healthcare (IMSH) 2016 by visiting the link below:
View SOPHIE IMSH 2016 Materials
design_services
Design
With SOPHIE, you can produce professional simulated drug labels for your medical scenarios. Just click to change text size or background colors and more. Once you've saved your design, it's in your Collection for you to come back and use whenever you want.
print
Print
Producing labels for your drugs is easy. Once you've designed your label, SOPHIE can export an entire sheet filled your labels as a PDF. Now all you have to do is cut them out and stick them on your drugs.
share
Share
SOPHIE has a community so you can share the drug labels you've designed with your colleagues. Bookmark someone else's design and save it to your Collection or make your own edits. It couldn't be easier.
No Photoshop Skills Required
With SOPHIE, designing drug labels for your simulated pharmacy is easy. Once you input your customizable dimensions, all you have to do is click an area to edit. Yep, font sizes, colors, background colors, alignment; it's all there.
Save Time & Money
When you're ready to print, SOPHIE will export an entire sheet filled with labels as a PDF. If you print on a sticky-back paper, all you have to do is cut them out and stick them on your drugs. Phew! That was easy.
Don't Reinvent, Reuse
SOPHIE has a whole community that allows you to share and use simulated drug labels with other simulation centers. Collaborate with your colleagues, and save time and money.
Get In Touch With Us
We're always looking for ways to improve SOPHIE. If you would like to report a bug or if you have a feature request, visit
Contact Us
for ways to get in touch with us.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login