Brand Guidelines | Identity | Logos and Marks | Campus Logo
Log In
Logos and Marks
Campus Logo
Usage
Logo Colors
Placement
Minimum Clear Space
Minimum Size
Do Not
Downloads
The core element in UCLA’s graphic identity is the Campus Logo. It was designed by Keith Bright, a UCLA alumnus and prominent graphic designer. The inspiration for the lettering is the Bauhaus design movement — like UCLA, launched in 1919. Adopted in 2004, the logotype is simple and modern, with a slight slant to give it a dynamic feel.
Usage
The Campus Logo comes in both “boxed” and “unboxed” versions. The “boxed” logo offers impressive visual weight and puts the UCLA Blue color front and center, and is therefore the preferred version. But in some contexts, the “unboxed” version is the better design option.
Campus Units
Policy 110 reaffirms that the campus logo is the standard logo for all academic and administrative units. The campus logo is a
required
brand element, to be used in accordance with the guidelines on this page.
If you need to combine the campus logo with the name of your school or department, see
Department Logos.
Student Groups and Campus Organizations
The Campus Logo may not be used by student groups and other campus organizations as they cannot represent themselves as speaking on behalf of UCLA. To learn more, visit the
Brand Protection
section. Individual students may be able to use the Campus Logo on research posters. See the
Presentations
section.
Logo Colors
The campus logo may only appear in three colors: UCLA Blue, plain white, or solid black. No gray or grayscale versions are permitted.
The boxed logo can be:
White letters in a UCLA Blue box (preferred)
White letters in a black box
Black letters in a white box
The unboxed logo can be:
UCLA Blue letters on white
Black letters on white
White letters on black or dark background
Always use the logo artwork from the
Downloads
section to assure logo colors are correct. The colors were meticulously assigned to create continuity and consistency.
Placement
Examples of the campus logo in use
Take care in positioning the campus logo. Choose the
minimum size
or larger, and provide at least the
minimum clear space
around the logo. Typically booklets, brochures and reports use the logo on the front or back covers. Flyers and ads often use the logo near the bottom to anchor the layout.
Only rarely is the campus logo the focal point of a layout. A photograph, headline or title may well be larger or carry more visual weight. However, the logo does need prominent placement and proportional size so it doesn’t disappear from the page.
Never use the logo in place of text in headlines or copy. When the UCLA name appears within a headline or body copy, simply set the letters UCLA in all caps in the same typeface and size as the surrounding text.
Minimum Clear Space
Never crowd the logo. It needs clear space, “buffer” space, around it. Use the width of the letter “U” to gauge the amount of clear space that’s
				    	needed.
It’s fine to align the left hand edge of the logo with your text or image: the empty space in the margin will function as the necessary clear space.
The
department logo
system allows for tighter integration of the campus logo and the administrative or academic unit name.
Minimum Size
Logo size should be proportional to other elements of the layout. In no case should the logo be sized below these minimums, measured vertically.
The unboxed version of the campus logo should be at least 0.3” high in print, equivalent to 26 pixels high online.
The boxed version of the campus logo should be at least 0.4” high in print, equivalent to 30 pixels high online.
Do Not
Do not add a drop shadow to the logo.
Do not change the relative sizes of “UC” and “LA,” or otherwise emphasize letter pairs.
Do not use any shade of gray or grayscale for the campus logo.
Do not use gold for the logo. Do not warp the lettering.
Do not add graphic elements to the campus logo.
Do not alter the shape of the boxed logo.
Do not use the UCLA Blue logo against a gold background.
Do not superimpose the white logo over a complex background. In photos, position the logo on neutral areas such as the sky.
Do not use the unboxed UCLA Blue logo on a black background.
Note:
All of these examples were created to illustrate a point. They are not the work of any campus unit.
Download
You can download the Campus Logo in either boxed or unboxed versions in three specified colors. For each version of the logo you download, three file formats are provided: EPS, SVG and PNG. EPS is for print (InDesign), engraving, banners. SVG is for motion graphics and animation. PNG is for online and Microsoft Office.
Included in your download:
Boxed logo in UCLA Blue
Unboxed logo in UCLA Blue
Boxed logo in white
Unboxed logo in white
Boxed logo in black
Unboxed logo in black
By downloading artwork I am agreeing to use the Campus Logo only as specified in Policy 110 and this Brand Guidelines site.
Download Campus Logo (ZIP 7 MB)
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility