Brand Guidelines | Identity | Logos and Marks | Historical Logos and Marks
Log In
Logos and Marks
Historical Marks
This "retro" version of the Joe Bruin mascot is sometimes called "smiley Joe."
If you page through the UCLA yearbooks of the twentieth century, you'll see many marks associated with the campus: logos, icons of Royce Hall, illustrations of Bruin mascots from cuddly teddy bears to fierce grizzlies. While these logos and marks from years past are not elements of the campus identity, they are part of our history. And they are still the legal property of the Regents of the University of California, protected by state, federal and international law as well as campus policy.
"Marks" are not limited to graphics. Here's the definition from
Policy 110
: "UCLA Marks collectively refer to UCLA Campus Names; UCLA Primary Logos; UCLA Seal; UCLA trademarks; any words, symbols, designs, colors, landmarks, three-dimensional objects (e.g., packaging), sounds, and other assets used by UCLA to identify and distinguish its goods and services from those of others, whether registered or unregistered as trademarks; and any derivations of the foregoing."
Vintage marks and logos are occasionally used to evoke a sense of history, especially in materials for alumni. However, they should never replace the standard use of the UCLA campus logo. To request permission to use historical marks and logos, go to
marks.ucla.edu
To appeal to nostalgic alumni, sportswear vendors sometimes license these historical versions of the Joe Bruin mascot or lettering that evoke past decades.
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility