Brand Guidelines | Identity | Logos and Marks | Campus Seal
Log In
Logos and Marks
UCLA Seal
Symbolism, Colors and Size
Usage
Other Seals
Do Not
Rich in symbolism, the UCLA Seal is the campus version of the University of California Seal adopted in 1910.
Symbolism, Colors and Size
In the center of the University of California seal, a book is open to a page marked with the letter "A". The book symbolizes the accumulation and dissemination of knowledge, and the letter "A" signifies the beginning of wisdom. A streamer carrying the words of the university motto, "Let There Be Light," flows across the lower portion of the book. Above the book, a five-pointed star with rays of light streaming downward symbolizes the discovery and dissemination of knowledge. (Adapted from the
University of California brand site
.)
The UCLA Seal is the campus version of the University of California Seal, replacing the date "1868" with "UCLA."
The UCLA Seal most often appears in UCLA Blue or black. The three-color version uses black plus UCLA Blue and Gold. Its beauty and intricacy are best seen in sizes larger than 1 inch (72 pixels online).
Usage
The UCLA Seal is reserved for use on formal invitations, engraved awards and plaques, ceremonial banners, and materials from the chancellor’s office. The seal artwork is not available for download because its use is restricted.
Templates for
research posters
may incorporate the UCLA Seal, as authorized in Policy 110.
To request permission to use the campus or university seal, go to
marks.ucla.edu
Other Seals
You can distinguish the UCLA Seal from others by looking at the
wording
on the seal:
The “Official” UC Seal
It says "Seal of the University of California." Only the Regents use the official seal, on legal documents and diplomas. It's not even shown on the University of California brand site.
The “Unofficial” UC Seal
It does not say "Seal of." It has the founding date "1868" on the bottom. It is reserved for use on official University of California stationery to emphasize the unity of the University of California system. While it's "unofficial" in the sense that it's not a legally binding corporate seal, its integrity is important and its use is restricted.
Do Not
When it's appropriate to use the campus or university seal, treat it with respect.
Do not alter the seal.
Do not crop or rotate the seal.
Do not place other images in or on top of the seal.
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility