ASUCLA Academy — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
The ASUCLA Academy
Associated Students UCLA (ASUCLA) is a nonprofit association that has delivered vital student services to the University of California Los Angeles (UCLA) since 1919. As the largest student employer on campus, we employ approximately 1,400 students each year. Our student staff comprises six out of every seven employees at ASUCLA, and our professional staff report to a student-majority board of directors who set our strategic direction.
Being a part of the ASUCLA Academy provides students with on-the-job training and development in responsibility, reliability, flexibility, and leadership, which provides future graduates with valuable knowledge and skills to successfully navigate their future careers.
Student employment at ASUCLA provides a vital source of income for Bruins, along with job skills training, rapid promotional opportunities, and professional development in areas including finance, human resources, marketing, trademarks and licensing, technology, food services, and retail. Working on campus and forming friendships with other students fosters a community that enhances the student experience. With a limited commute and intentionally flexible work schedules that are generally limited to 10 – 20 hours per week, students are well-positioned to tailor their work hours to focus on their education.
ASUCLA is fundamentally guided by and committed to student empowerment, student leadership, and student independence, and is intentional about creating opportunities for student employees to be and become their very best selves as they prepare to embark on their own professional journeys.
To learn more about Student Employment click the link below
JOBS
To learn how you can support the ASUCLA Academy, click the link below.
Name
*
First Name
Last Name
Email
*
Message
*
Thank you!
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.