UCLA job benefits — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
CAREER BENEFITS & RESOURCES
ASUCLA offers career employees with the unique opportunity to work for an organization whose mission is to provide innovative and excellent services, programs, products and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Producing $70 million in sales, ASUCLA manages a challenging range of ventures. We sell designer apparel, computers and books. We run restaurants, event-planning services and catering. As business visionaries, we seek a constant flow of creativity from our employees which enhances our ability to deliver new services and infuse our operations with advanced technology.
In addition to an outstanding benefits package, ASUCLA offers hands-on challenges and professional growth in management, supervisory, technician and support areas. Plus, our jobs offer the satisfaction of mentoring high-caliber UCLA student.
Insurance
Dental
Medical
Vision
Life
Accidental Death and Dismemberment
Financial
Retirement
Membership to Credit Union
Employee Discount
Automatic Deposit
Vacation
Paid Vacation (3 wks)
Sick Leave (12 days)
Holidays (13 days)
Additional
Education & Training
Legal Services
RESOURCES
Links for ASUCLA Associates and Links to Learning.
Online Earning Statements (At Your Service)
See your latest earnings statement, view your current health plan choices and more.
UCLA Extension
You may qualify for a discount when you enroll for a UCLA Extension class! Call our office for more information.
Staff and Faculty Counseling Center
Free, confidential counseling services for employees and their family members.
Staff Assembly and Learn at Lunch Series
Classes and seminars offered to promote the interest and welfare of university staff employees.
UC Employee Benefits
Get all your employment questions answered here, and find out all the latest news from UCLA Human Resources.
Training and Development
UCLA offers a wide variety of developmental programs to build job skills for the role you have and to foster the career we hope you develop.
UCLA's Employment Page
More information on campus job openings, resources, academic positions and more.
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.