Customer Service Initiative — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
ASUCLA CUSTOMER SERVICE INITIATIVE
At ASUCLA, we strive to offer exceptional service that's thoughtful, genuine and made with your individual needs in mind. Come explore an inclusive and supportive environment where every customer is treated with respect and compassion.
ASUCLA service standards
Hospitable
We offer an unrivaled guest experience by using positive body language, empathy and unwavering patience toward each and every customer and colleague.
Consistency
We strive to deliver consistent goods and services to our constituents that make us a partner in their initiatives.
Accuracy
We have unrivaled knowledge of our goods and services which allows us to tailor your order to fit your needs now and in the future. We want to be your provider of choice.
Availability
We are available to you before, during and after the customer service experience. We want to ensure you and your business have your needs met and that we exceed your expectations.
Responsiveness
We provide our guests and colleagues an unmatched customer service experience through attention to detail by listening to their wants and needs.
Efficiency
We strive to meet deadlines to allow you to achieve optimal efficiencies in your business or department. Your success is our success.
Preparation before interactions
Greet guests and colleagues with friendly and empathetic greetings
In-person interactions
Communicate clearly. Speak in a calm tone.  Allow your customer or colleague time to ask questions after you speak
Keep your public space clean and organized
Ensure name badges are worn when you are on duty and always when in our public spaces
Place electronic devices on silent mode and never use them when engaging a customer or colleague, unless it is to assist with the interaction
Prepare to engage in conversation by practicing prior to interaction. Smile and make initial eye contact
Listen
Empathize
Apologize
Find a solution
Dealing with difficult customers
Articles on customer service
The state of customer care in 2022
July 8, 2022 |
Article
McKinsey & Company
Ten ways to rock the customer experience in 2023
January 1, 2023 |
Article
Forbes
If you have a question or comment you would like addressed, email us at:
talk2us@asucla.ucla.edu
Talk to Us
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.