ASUCLA Misson and Vision — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
MISSION VISION
Mission Statement
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Vision Statement
The Associated Students UCLA is a student-led organization that creates the strongest, longest-lasting memories for every member of the UCLA Community.
Association Goals
Products
To provide essential and convenient items that are easily accessible, of high quality and low cost, including, but not limited to, academic support, food, trademark merchandise, and convenience products. In addition, to continue evaluating the utility and convenience of all products to make improvements that will best serve the UCLA community.
Facilities
To provide a welcoming environment that contains as much space as possible for the optimal functioning of general academic support, student governments, student organizations, and social gatherings. To have state-of-the-art venues for programming, and efficient, aesthetic and multi-functional commercial outlets.
Services
To provide an outstanding level of support to student government, student groups, and student programs through state-of-the-art office and community spaces, and by providing adequate financial resources and personnel to ensure an active and vibrant campus life.
Programs
To provide and support a diversified array of programming by prioritizing student-run, student-initiated, student-centered programming that reflects the needs of the campus community in order to enhance educational, cultural, and developmental social interaction.
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.