ASUCLA Core Values — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
CORE VALUES
Since 1919, Associated Students UCLA has had the privilege to provide academic support products and services to the UCLA campus community.
Our mission is to do this with innovation and excellence, reflecting the will of the student population, the needs of faculty, staff and visitors and in light of our unique position at one of the premier institutes of higher learning in the United States.
We believe we have a responsibility to do what is right, not only for our business and our stakeholders (students), but also for the UCLA community. These core values reflect our guiding principles and are the foundation for our business model.
Our Independent Bookstore
As the trend in college stores moves toward joining bookstore chains, ASUCLA remains committed to an independent operation with a focus on personal service for the campus community. Whether you are a student buying textbooks, or a faculty member requesting a course reader, we’re here to provide you personalized service that can’t be matched by any online or chain store.
Campus Partnerships
Through long-established partnerships with other campus entities, ASUCLA contributes to UCLA’s continued development and success as a premier University. We offer our expertise and resources in ways that energize and strengthen efforts to boost campus spirit, to support student-initiated programming and to foster campus-wide collaboration.
Championship Service
ASUCLA was founded in 1919 to deliver needed student services and activities. Since then, it has steadily grown to an 65 million dollar business that meets the everyday needs of tens of thousands of students, faculty, staff and campus visitors. In every encounter with our customers, ASUCLA employees make the decision to provide high quality products that exemplify our commitment to innovation, excellence, and exceptional customer service.
Your Student Association
Student Leadership is not just an idea at ASUCLA, it is how we do business. Students—appointed by the Undergraduate and Graduate Students Associations—make up the majority on our Board of Directors and serve alongside appointees from the Alumni Association, the Academic Senate and the Chancellor’s Office to oversee the 80 million dollar enterprise that is so integral to everyday life at UCLA.
ASUCLA Benefits U
Students are already members of the Associated Students UCLA automatically when they enroll at UCLA. Registering their membership with ASUCLA Benefits U allows students to receive direct communication about the services available to them from ASUCLA –and to share in the Association’s success through discount offers from the UCLA Store, Restaurants and Student Union. Visit ASUCLA Benefits U for more information.
Building Toward the Future
The revenue generated by sales at the UCLA Store and UCLA Restaurants not only supports the Student Union, it is also invested in new places to meet and dine. Our biggest project in recent years is the Court of Sciences Student Center, completed in 2012 with a LEED Gold rating for New Construction. But we have added many new spaces such as Wolfgang Puck Express and the Music Center Cafe. Through our capital investments, we contribute to UCLA’s campus infrastructure while providing students their own spaces and facilities.
Employee Investment
One of the Associated Students UCLA’s core missions as a student-centered organization is exemplified in the professional development of our student employees. ASUCLA is the largest of employer of students on campus, providing good-paying jobs tailored to student schedules in convenient locations around campus. For ambitious students, ASUCLA offers management experience in retail operations, facility management, and administrative services. Many of our student leaders become career employees who continue our tradition of providing a workplace environment that fosters respect, empowerment and individual development.
The Greater Good
We strive to set a standard for social and ethical responsibility by reflecting the values of the UCLA community. This commitment has meant making tough decisions about who we do business with and what kind of products we offer. Over the years, our efforts have included Fair Trade Coffee, a cigarette sales ban, fair labor practice standards for all vendors and healthful and organic food offerings. We recognize there is always more that can be done but also that is is achievable through integrity and hard work.
Target Zero Waste
We recognize our responsibility to minimize our negative impact on the environment.  ASUCLA has developed a sustainability policy that focuses on reducing waste and conserving resources by changing our business practices, involving the community and promoting consumer education. We are very proud of the strides we have made in the recent past: The Lu Valle Commons Greening Project is a testing ground for many ideas that we hope to implement; the Greenhouse features biodegradable containers and utensils, made from bamboo, sugarcane and corn; LEED certification is planned for the South Campus Student Center project.
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.