UCLA New Bruins — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
Welcome new Bruins!
Bruin Nights Carnival for new UCLA students
Come and be a part of the Bruin Nights Carnival! It's happening from
7 p.m. to 10 p.m.
and promises a fun-filled evening with games, delicious snacks, arts and crafts, raffles, and much more! Don't forget to get the ASUCLA app to join a special raffle for a chance to win a pair of SkullCandy wireless earphones.
Welcome to your Student Union!
Welcome to the Associated Students UCLA!
We’re the biggest and best student association in the nation because we’re made up of students like you!
ASUCLA is multi-faceted and unique
– it is student-run from top to bottom and encompasses student government, student media, the UCLA Store, UCLA Restaurants, and more in addition to being the home of a vibrant Student Union in two beautiful campus buildings, Kerckhoff Hall and Ackerman Union.
Meet your student association
and then dive into the ways to get involved
Looking for an on-campus job?
At ASUCLA we offer students flexible on-campus jobs, employee discounts at the UCLA store, and even work-study benefits. Learn more about our jobs and apply here!
UCLA Store
The UCLA Store @ Ackerman Union
is located in the heart of the UCLA Campus.
The UCLA Store features Textbooks, School Supplies, UCLA Apparel & Accessories, and the UCLA Computer Store.
Looking for delicious food options?
Visit our
Restaurants
page for more locations in Ackerman Union & Central Campus.
The UCLA Store @ Ackerman Union is located at Ackerman B-Level, 308 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095.
Restaurants
UCLA Store
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.