Privacy Policy — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
Privacy Policy
Last updated 10/05/2023
The ASUCLA values its customers and is committed to responsible practices in handling customer information. We do not sell or rent any of the information you provide to us. Please see the FAQ’s below for additional information regarding our privacy practices.
If our practice of handling personal information changes in the future, we will let you know by posting the updated policy on our website. We will notify you if our policy changes the way we use your information in a way not previously disclosed in this privacy policy. You will have an opportunity at that time to opt in or out of any new use of your information.
Please note that the following policy includes all business conducted with asucla.ucla.edu. We maintain all of these sites and protect the information you provide on all of them as described below.
What kind of information does asucla.ucla.edu collect?
We collect information you provide (i.e. name, mailing address, e-mail address, credit card numbers) when placing an order. We also collect click-stream information including the URL of the site that you came from before visiting our site, and which browser you are using to view our site.
How does asucla.ucla.edu use my information?
When you make an online purchase, we use your information to process your order. We also send an e-mail confirming your order, and may need to contact you via phone if we have any questions regarding your order. We do not use your e-mail address to send e-mail announcements about our products, services or promotions, but you have the option of signing up for this service by selecting the email signup link.
Does asucla.ucla.edu use cookies to collect information?
We use cookies to let us remember your information while you browse our website. No personally identifiable information is stored in these cookies.
Our server also automatically collects information on the URL, or web address, of the site that you came from before visiting ours, and what browser you are using to view our site. This information is helpful to us so that we may understand how visitors use our site and can make improvements if we find that it will make your shopping experience better.
Does asucla.ucla.edu share my information with third parties?
All of your information collected is strictly kept within our databases. We do not authorize any third parties, including any ASUCLA-affiliated group, access to your information. It is used solely for the purpose of processing your online order.
Should you choose to subscribe to any of our e-mail lists, your information is also kept strictly within our organization.
How can I update or change my information?
You can click on “My Account” and log in with your e-mail address and password. Once you are logged in, you are able to change any account information.
If you subscribed to our e-mail lists and decide you would prefer not to receive our promotional e-mails, you can be removed from our list by clicking “Unsubscribe” at the bottom of any e-mail sent to you from us.
Whom can I contact if I have any questions or concerns?
You can e-mail talk2us@asucla.ucla.edu with any questions or concerns you have about our policy, or with any questions or comments you have about our entire site.
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.