SU Fee on the Bruin Bill — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
Student Union Fee on the Bruin Bill
What is the Student Union Fee Bill?
The Student Union Fee is a $69 annual fee — $23 per fall, winter and spring quarters — for both resident and nonresident students enrolled at UCLA.
Initially established as the Ackerman Student Union Fee through a 1958 student referendum at $12 annually, its purpose was to fund the construction of the Ackerman Union building, which opened in 1961. Since then, ASUCLA has undertaken many major improvements for student facilities and implemented further support for UCLA students, supported by the additional passing of the SAFE referendum in 2005, in pursuit of its mission to provide excellent products, programs, services and facilities for the UCLA community.
A breakdown of all UCLA annual-and-term student fees can be viewed via the UCLA Registrar’s Office website.
What does the fee cover?
The Student Union Fee covers payment for capital construction loans for various projects in facilities operated by ASUCLA; student community space such as meeting rooms and event venues like Ackerman Grand Ballroom; public space like lounges, restrooms, stairways and corridors; student wage support; and support for the Undergraduate Students Association and Graduate Students Association.
Approximately 4.2% of the ASUCLA operating budget is sustained by the Student Union Fee to support the aforementioned; the remaining 95.8% is derived from revenue generated by ASUCLA Student-Run Enterprises.
Meeting rooms, event venues (such as AGB and the Grand Salon), Public Space Costs
Lounges, corridors, stairways, restrooms, Student Wage Support
14.1%
5.2%
Student Government Support
37.5%
16.9%
26.4%
Building Expansion Debt
Student Community Space Costs
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.