UCLA work study for students — ASUCLA
0
Skip to Content
Open Menu
Close Menu
Open Menu
Close Menu
WORK STUDY
My Work Study applies to all ASUCLA Jobs!
What is Work Study?
Work Study
is a federal program. It enables students to earn money for college costs via part-time employment.
The federal government pays a portion of your wage, and ASUCLA pays the balance.
Where do I get info about Work Study jobs openings?
Visit our
Job page
to check out our current openings.
Work Study
can be applied to any ASUCLA student job.
If you have been accepted a position with us, please let us know you qualify for
Work Study
so that we can process your paperwork accordingly.
What happens when my Work Study runs out?
Your job will continue regardless of your
Work Study
status.
If you receive more
Work Study
the following year, let us know and we’ll make the necessary changes, but it won’t affect your job with ASUCLA.
Does Work Study affect my chances of getting an ASUCLA job?
No. You have the same opportunity to work for us regardless of your
Work Study
eligibility.
How do I apply for Work Study?
To be considered for the Work Study program, you must complete the Free Application for Federal Student Aid (FAFSA) and submit any supporting documentation within the deadline period.
Once the UCLA Financial Aid Office receives your FAFSA info, your application is evaluated and a financial aid package is determined.
This package may include Federal Work Study.
ASUCLA Mission
The Associated Students UCLA, as a responsive student-centered organization, provides innovative and excellent services, programs, products, and facilities for the entire UCLA community.
Get a Job
Job Openings
Student Job Benefits
Career Benefits
Contact HR
Student Union
Request a Reservation
Student Union Services
Catering
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Where to Eat
Restaurant Locations
ASUCLA & Store Hours
Quick Links
About ASUCLA
Board of Directors
Contact Us
Privacy Policy
© Regents of the University of California. UCLA®, UCLA Bruins®, University of California Los Angeles® and all related trademarks are the property of the Regents of the University of California.