Careers | UCLA School of Nursing
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
Alumni
Students
Careers
Faculty openings
Tenured Associate or Full Professor
The School of Nursing at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) seeks talented, innovative, and productive nurse scientists/scholars to join UCLA nursing faculty as tenured Associate Professors or Professors. An Endowed Chair is available.
We seek a senior nurse scientist/scholar/leader with an established, federally-funded program of research focused on clinical or population science, evidence of excellence in teaching, leadership in professional service, and evidence of promoting equity, diversity, and inclusivity.
We welcome and encourage candidates whose experience in teaching, research, or community service and/or clinical practice has prepared them to contribute to our commitment to diversity and excellence.
Qualifications:
Earned research doctorate (PhD in nursing or related field)
Current licensure (or eligible for current licensure) in California as a registered nurse and/or advanced level of practitioners/clinicians
Evidence of an established independent research program congruent with the mission of the School
Evidence of teaching and service excellence, including graduate-level teaching experience in an academic institution
Evidence of promoting diversity and inclusivity in the workplace and/or in the community
The positions will remain open until filled.
More details and information on submitting an application are available here.
Academic Administrator for Clinical Education
The University of California Los Angles (UCLA) School of Nursing is seeking applicants for a full-time Academic Administrator for Clinical Education.
The successful candidate will support clinical partnerships for nursing education through development of relationships with partners of clinical agencies, community-based healthcare settings, health systems, and other academic institutions to support faculty teaching and student learning in clinical settings. The candidate must demonstrate a record of collaboration with nursing preceptors and administrators in varied clinical settings; knowledge and skills for clinical problem-solving; use of formative and summative evaluation processes to guide continuous quality improvement; and the skills and commitment to continue building sustainable and scalable academic-practice partnerships for excellent clinical education across academic programs.
The Academic Administrator for Clinical Education is responsible for:
Serve as a liaison to the external community, and build practice partnerships in support of clinical education.
Sustain, support, and expand the network of clinical sites (affiliated and to be affiliated) and the network of clinical preceptors for student learning.
Develop emerging opportunities in clinical education, including the University of California consortium for Psych-Mental Health Nurse Practitioner preparation.
Serve as liaison to the California Board of Registered Nursing (BRN) as needed, and align clinical education experiences with accrediting and regulatory standards and requirements.
Sustain and expand the network of preceptors in support of graduate nursing clinical education.
Lead clinical education innovation and quality improvement
Lead clinical placement coordinators and clinical affiliation coordinators to provide effective services.
Use administrative databases (such as eValue) to organize, visualize, and report clinical education patterns, trends, and needed data for CCNE and CABRN Accreditation, UC Health, UCLA Health, and local/regional health systems.
Institute data tracking systems to record and monitor medication errors, accidents, and incidents in clinical settings, and collaborate with Program Directors to remediate unsafe clinical practice.
Collaborate with the Director of Evaluation to act on formative and summative evaluations of clinical education to improve clinical education safety and quality
Seek extramural funding in support of clinical education.
Collaborate with School of Nursing program directors, faculty, clinical coordinators, skills and simulation directors, and clinical placement coordinators to support faculty teaching and student learning.
Enhance academic and clinical experiences to meet the demands and needs of nursing clinical education.
Develop and implement competency-based clinical assessment and evaluation methods in collaboration with faculty.
Host faculty orientation for clinical instruction prior to initial clinical teaching assignment.Review, refine, and maintain preceptor handbooks for prelicensure and graduate student clinical experiences.
On occasion and as needed, teach courses across programs congruent with teaching expertise and experience.
Optionally, produce scholarship congruent with expertise and experience, either independently or in collaboration with faculty and clinical colleagues.
The Academic Administrator for Clinical Education directly reports to the Associate Dean for Academic Programs, serves on the Dean’s Leadership Council and participates in program planning, implementation, and evaluation, and generates reports and documentation as requested by Associate Dean.
The Academic Administrator for Clinical Education demonstrates integrity-based, effective communication, solves problems, builds professional relationships with internal and external constituencies in support of academic and practice partnerships, and provides servant and collaborative leadership with a strong sense of responsibility, accountability, and efficiency to support the missions of the School of Nursing and UCLA.
Requirements:
A Doctor of Nursing Practice or Ph.D degree in nursing; clinical experience. Experience teaching clinical courses at the undergraduate and/or graduate level is preferred, and prior or current appointment or affiliation with UCLA School of Nursing is preferred.
The School of Nursing welcomes and encourages diversity and seeks applications and nominations from individuals of diverse backgrounds. Individuals with a history of mentoring students from under-represented groups and those with a commitment to supporting diversity and equal opportunity in education, research and creative activity are invited to apply.
Applicants should submit all materials at the official UCLA website at
https://recruit.apo.ucla.edu/apply/JPF08943
. To assure full consideration, applications should be submitted by Dec. 31, 2023 - Position to remain open until filled.
Lecturer - Pre-Licensure (Medical Surgical, Mental Health, Pediatrics, Maternity, Public Health, and/or Geriatrics) 2024 - 2025
The UCLA School of Nursing invites applicants for Lecturer positions (full-time or part-time) for Pre-Licensure in the field of: Medical Surgical, Mental Health, Pediatrics, Maternity, Public Health, and/or Geriatrics) for 2024-2025.
Candidates should have the following qualifications:
A Master’s degree in Nursing
Excellent skills in teaching and mentoring students
Excellent clinical skills in medical-surgical nursing, mental health, pediatrics maternity, public health and/or geriatric nursin
Excellent interpersonal skills
Demonstrated ability as an educator, including classroom management, mastery of educational methodologies, and/or experience with individualized student coaching and remediation
Have/or be eligible for a license as a Registered Nurse in California
Meet eligibility requirements for BRN certification in clinical instruction
Demonstrated commitment to diversity as a core value in education
Candidates should have a good understanding of the academic process and the University setting along with the ability to establish excellent working relationships with other faculty, students, and preceptors. The position may require traveling to clinical sites within the greater Southern California community.
Responsibilities include:
Prepare and present lectures for students in the clinical courses for the Undergraduate and Master’s Entry Clinical Nurse (MECN) programs according to the curriculum
Construct, administer, and file appropriate student evaluations, including tests, performance exams (e.g., Objective Structured Clinical Exams [OSCEs]), and final grades
Provide consultation to clinical instructors as required at clinical training sites to insure effective student learning
Instruct students in fundamentals, skills labs, including virtual simulations, and physical assessment labs as needed
Participate in one- on-one student coaching and remediation as directed
Serve as an academic advisor for prelicensure students, as assigned by the Prelicensure Program Director
Provide feedback to the Prelicensure Program Director and Associate Dean for Academic & Student Affairs regarding the fit of clinical sites to student learning as needed
Provide student counseling and mentorship as needed, in conjunction with the Prelicensure Program Director and the Director for Student Affairs
Function effectively as part of teaching teams
The School of Nursing welcomes and encourages diversity and seeks applications and nominations from individuals of diverse backgrounds. Individuals with a history of mentoring students from underrepresented groups and those with a commitment to supporting diversity and equal opportunity in education, research and creative activity are invited to apply.
More details and information on submitting an application are available here.
Lecturer - Pre-Licensure (Medical Surgical, Mental Health, Pediatrics, Maternity, Public Health, and/or Geriatrics) - Fall 2023 and Winter 2024
The UCLA School of Nursing invites applicants for Lecturer positions (full-time or part-time) for Pre-Licensure in the field of: Medical Surgical, Mental Health, Pediatrics, Maternity, Public Health, and/or Geriatrics) for Fall 2023, Winter 2024, Spring 2024, and Summer 2024.
Candidates should have the following qualifications: 1) a Master’s degree in Nursing; 2) excellent skills in teaching and mentoring students; 2) excellent clinical skills in medical-surgical nursing, mental health, pediatrics maternity, public health and/or geriatric nursing; 3) excellent interpersonal skills; 4) demonstrated ability as an educator, including classroom management, mastery of educational methodologies, and/or experience with individualized student coaching and remediation; 5) have/or be eligible for a license as a Registered Nurse in California, 6) meet eligibility requirements for BRN certification in clinical instruction 7) demonstrated commitment to diversity as a core value in education.
Candidates should have a good understanding of the academic process and the University setting along with the ability to establish excellent working relationships with other faculty, students, and preceptors. The position may require traveling to clinical sites within the greater Southern California community.
Responsibilities include: 1) prepare and present lectures for students in the clinical courses for the Undergraduate and Master’s Entry Clinical Nurse (MECN) programs according to the curriculum; 2) construct, administer, and file appropriate student evaluations, including tests, performance exams (e.g., Objective Structured Clinical Exams [OSCEs]), and final grades; 3) provide consultation to clinical instructors as required at clinical training sites to insure effective student learning; 4) instruct students in fundamentals, skills labs, including virtual simulations, and physical assessment labs as needed; 5) participate in one- on-one student coaching and remediation as directed; 6) serve as an academic advisor for prelicensure students, as assigned by the Prelicensure Program Director; 7) provide feedback to the Prelicensure Program Director and Associate Dean for Academic & Student Affairs regarding the fit of clinical sites to student learning as needed; 8) provide student counseling and mentorship as needed, in conjunction with the Prelicensure Program Director and the Director for Student Affairs, and 9) function effectively as part of teaching teams.
The School of Nursing welcomes and encourages diversity and seeks applications and nominations from individuals of diverse backgrounds. Individuals with a history of mentoring students from underrepresented groups and those with a commitment to supporting diversity and equal opportunity in education, research and creative activity are invited to apply.
More details and information on submitting an application are available here.
Lecturer - APRN/DNP (Family Nurse Practitioner and/or Adult-Gerontology Primary Care/Doctor of Nursing Practice) 2024 - 2025
The School of Nursing is looking for full-time or part-time Lecturer applicants. Candidates must have the following qualifications:
MSN or doctorate in nursing, doctorate preferred
National certification and clinical experience as either a Family Nurse Practitioner or an Adult/Gerontology - Primary Care
Have or be eligible for a license as an Advanced Practice Registered Nurse in California.
Prior teaching experience preferred
Demonstrated commitment to diversity as a core value in education
Candidates for this position should have a good understanding of the academic process and the university setting. They should also possess the ability to establish excellent working relationships with other faculty, students, and preceptors. The position may require travel to clinical sites within the greater Southern California community. Salary will be commensurate with experience.
Responsibilities include:
Preparing and presenting lectures, and providing clinical instruction to advanced practice students (nurse practitioners or clinical nurse specialists) in theory and/or clinical courses, in accordance with the curriculum.
Constructing, administering, grading, and filing appropriate student evaluations and final grades.
Instructing students in skills labs and physical assessment labs as needed.
Identifying clinical training sites and providing feedback to the Program Director for Advanced Practice Programs and the Associate Dean for Academic & Student Affairs regarding the fit of clinical sites to student learning.
Providing student counseling and mentorship as needed, in conjunction with the Director of Student Affairs.
Participating in Program Meetings and School of Nursing committees as needed.
Functioning effectively as part of teaching teams.
The School of Nursing values diversity and welcomes applications from individuals of diverse backgrounds. We encourage those who have experience mentoring students from underrepresented groups and who are committed to promoting diversity and equal opportunity in education, research, and creative endeavors to apply.
More details and information on submitting an application are available here.
Lecturer - APRN (Family Nurse Practitioner and/or Adult-Gerontology Primary Care) - 23-24
The School of Nursing is looking for full-time or part-time Lecturer applicants. Candidates must have the following qualifications:
MSN or doctorate in nursing, doctorate preferred
National certification and clinical experience as either a Family Nurse Practitioner or an Adult/Gerontology - Primary Care
Have or be eligible for a license as an Advanced Practice Registered Nurse in California.
Prior teaching experience preferred
Demonstrated commitment to diversity as a core value in education
Candidates for this position should have a good understanding of the academic process and the university setting. They should also possess the ability to establish excellent working relationships with other faculty, students, and preceptors. The position may require travel to clinical sites within the greater Southern California community. Salary will be commensurate with experience.
Responsibilities include:
Preparing and presenting lectures, and providing clinical instruction to advanced practice students (nurse practitioners or clinical nurse specialists) in theory and/or clinical courses, in accordance with the curriculum.
Constructing, administering, grading, and filing appropriate student evaluations and final grades.
Instructing students in skills labs and physical assessment labs as needed.
Identifying clinical training sites and providing feedback to the Program Director for Advanced Practice Programs and the Associate Dean for Academic & Student Affairs regarding the fit of clinical sites to student learning.
Providing student counseling and mentorship as needed, in conjunction with the Director of Student Affairs.
Participating in Program Meetings and School of Nursing committees as needed.
Functioning effectively as part of teaching teams.
The School of Nursing values diversity and welcomes applications from individuals of diverse backgrounds. We encourage those who have experience mentoring students from underrepresented groups and who are committed to promoting diversity and equal opportunity in education, research, and creative endeavors to apply.
More details and information on submitting an application are available here.
Lecturer - Pre-Licensure (Medical Surgical, Mental Health, Pediatrics, Maternity, Public Health, and/or Geriatrics) 2023-2024
The UCLA School of Nursing invites applicants for Lecturer positions (full-time or part-time) for Pre-Licensure in the field of: Medical Surgical, Mental Health, Pediatrics, Maternity, Public Health, and/or Geriatrics) for Summer 2023, Fall 2023, Winter 2024, Spring 2024. Candidates should have the following qualifications: 1) a Master’s degree in Nursing; 2) excellent skills in teaching and mentoring students; 2) excellent clinical skills in medical-surgical nursing, mental health, pediatrics maternity, public health and/or geriatric nursing; 3) excellent interpersonal skills; 4) demonstrated ability as an educator, including classroom management, mastery of educational methodologies, and/or experience with individualized student coaching and remediation; 5) have/or be eligible for a license as a Registered Nurse in California, 6) meet eligibility requirements for BRN certification in clinical instruction 7) demonstrated commitment to diversity as a core value in education.
Candidates should have a good understanding of the academic process and the University setting along with the ability to establish excellent working relationships with other faculty, students, and preceptors. The position may require traveling to clinical sites within the greater Southern California community.
Responsibilities include: 1) prepare and present lectures for students in the clinical courses for the Undergraduate and Master’s Entry Clinical Nurse (MECN) programs according to the curriculum; 2) construct, administer, and file appropriate student evaluations, including tests, performance exams (e.g., Objective Structured Clinical Exams [OSCEs]), and final grades; 3) provide consultation to clinical instructors as required at clinical training sites to insure effective student learning; 4) instruct students in fundamentals, skills labs, including virtual simulations, and physical assessment labs as needed; 5) participate in one- on-one student coaching and remediation as directed; 6) serve as an academic advisor for prelicensure students, as assigned by the Prelicensure Program Director; 7) provide feedback to the Prelicensure Program Director and Associate Dean for Academic & Student Affairs regarding the fit of clinical sites to student learning as needed; 8) provide student counseling and mentorship as needed, in conjunction with the Prelicensure Program Director and the Director for Student Affairs, and 9) function effectively as part of teaching teams.
The School of Nursing welcomes and encourages diversity and seeks applications and nominations from individuals of diverse backgrounds. Individuals with a history of mentoring students from underrepresented groups and those with a commitment to supporting diversity and equal opportunity in education, research and creative activity are invited to apply.
More details and information on submitting an application are available here.
Staff openings
Staff Research Associate II
The project director position will direct a research study testing an acupuncture protocol for patients with chest pain syndrome compared to controls. The position entails independent work with the general supervision of the Principal Investigator. The project director must be adept at clinical research and analysis and possess strong writing, editing and oral communication skills. Knowledge of and experience with computers and software applications, including project management tools. The director must be organized, a problem solver, self-directed, and demonstrate leadership and initiative, while at the same time being a committed team player. The director will be provided with opportunities for presentations and publications.
Qualifications include:
Bachelor's degree in a science field and 5 years of professional experience or equivalent project director experience.
Knowledge of and experience with computers and software applications, including project management tools.
Ability to work independently, organize time, and keep a detailed notebook.
Must be adept at research, analysis and possess strong writing, editing and oral communication skills.
Ability to communicate well with faculty, staff, vendors, and UCLA departments.
Must be organized, a problem solver, self-directed, and demonstrate leadership and initiative, while being a pleasant and productive member of the research team.
Learn more about this position and apply here
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Tiverton Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
sonsaff@sonnet.ucla.edu
Information
Faculty Directory
Nursing at UCLA Health
Useful Links
Current Student Website
SON Intranet
IT Support
SON Email
eValue Login
Getting Around
Campus Map
Parking Information
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login