Our Leadership | UCLA School of Nursing
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
Alumni
Students
Our Leadership
The Dean
Lin Zhan, Ph.D., RN, FAAN
, joined the UCLA School of Nursing in 2021 after serving as dean of the University of Memphis Loewenberg College of Nursing. There, Zhan was the chief academic officer for the college’s programs on two campuses in Memphis and Jackson, Tennessee.
In addition to her research work on health equity, Zhan’s scholarly interests are focused on developing better measures for health-related behaviors and higher education diversity and workforce development. She has published more than 100 articles and edited six books and is frequently invited to give keynote speeches and professional presentations.
Zhan serves on the editorial boards of a number of journals including Nursing Report, Journal of Gerontological Nursing, and Journal of Aging and Geriatric Medicine. In 2001, she was inducted as a fellow of the American Academy of Nursing. Zhan is an honorary professor at 10 universities in China, and has been board treasurer of the American Association of Colleges of Nursing.
In 2020, Zhan was named as one of the “Visionaries in Geriatric Nursing: A Legacy for the Future” in the Journal of Geriatric Nursing, and in 2012 as one of the top 100 nursing professors in the United States by BSNtoMSN.org. Zhan is the recipient of numerous honors and awards including the National League for Nursing Outstanding Leadership Award in Nursing and Education in 2010.
Associate Dean of Student Affairs
Liz Yzquierdo, MPH, Ed.D.
, works collaboratively across the school to lead and coordinate several units that support, provide and promote student access, retention, degree completion, and career development. She works with a dynamic team that includes Student Affairs, Recruitment, Outreach & Admissions, and Financial Services.
Associate Dean of Research & Innovation
Dong Sung An, MD, PhD
, was appointed to Associate Dean of Research & Innovation in September 2023. His vision for this role is to support faculty members scholarly work with trust by ensuring best practices in the oversight and management of funded research projects and by leading new initiatives to enhance the research and career development of our faculty, postdoctoral fellows, and students.
Associate Dean of Academic Affairs
Barbara Bates-Jensen, PhD, RN, FAAN
, has been with UCLA for more than 20 years. In her leadership role, she hopes to be a catalyst for excellence in the School of Nursing by creating a culture of openness, transparency, and inclusive communication where all students, staff, and faculty voices are heard, along with actively engaged teamwork and collaboration that empowers faculty to thrive in their roles as educators and mentors for nursing professionals.
Associate Dean for Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion
Nalo Hamilton, PhD, MSN, APRN-BC
, joined UCLA Nursing in 2010. As Associate Dean for EDI, she fosters a culture where everyone in the UCLA Nursing community is valued, supported, and empowered to achieve their highest personal and professional goals.
Assistant Dean & Chief Nursing Executive, UCLA Health
Karen Grimley, Ph.D., MBA, RN, FAAN, FACHE, NEA-BC
, serves as assistant dean within the School of Nursing and is the Chief Nursing Executive for UCLA Health. In that role she is responsible for the overall delivery and management of patient care and professional nursing practice, clinical education, professional development, research and clinical services.
Assistant Dean of Administration
As the Assistant Dean of Administration,
Sheila Davis
has over 38 years of UC experience; 32 of which have been at UCLA in Human Resources, Payroll, Accounts Payable, Research Administration, Student Affairs, Compliance, Facilities Management, and Administration. She is currently responsible for managing the day to day operations of the School of Nursing, including facilities. Davis is also the Director of Human Resources and oversees and manages all HR related matters for faculty and staff. She represents the Dean’s Office to campus constituencies and serves as the liaison to external agencies regarding administrative matters.
Chief Financial Officer
Hector Arguello
is the School of Nursing's Chief Financial Officer, responsible for managing the school's resources according to UCLA's financial policies and guidelines. As CFO, Arguello provides accurate and reliable financial information to the Dean and the School's executive committee, which allows the school to formulate short-term and long-term financial goals. The CFO works closely with the Dean and the SON executive committee to identify savings by utilizing the principle of cost effectiveness. Arguello also works to identify new revenue streams in collaboration with the Dean.
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Tiverton Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
sonsaff@sonnet.ucla.edu
Information
Faculty Directory
Nursing at UCLA Health
Useful Links
Current Student Website
SON Intranet
IT Support
SON Email
eValue Login
Getting Around
Campus Map
Parking Information
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login