UCLA Physics & Astronomy
College
Physical Sciences
Resources
Graduate Council
American Physical Society
American Institute for Physics
Americal Astronomical Society
National Science Foundation
NASA
AIP PhysicsToday Jobs
AAS Job Register
Current graduate students
Overview
Physics: Earning the PhD degree
Astronomy: Earning the PhD degree
Graduate studies in the UCLA Physics & Astronomy Department offer unparalleled opportunities and support for 
      professional and career development. We encourage all graduate students and postdoctoral scholars to actively 
      engage in professional development opportunities to complement your research training throughout your career 
      at UCLA.
This collection of resources is aimed at currently enrolled students in the PhD programs of study. You will 
      find in the menu at right:
General UCLA program requirements and an official outline of program requirements for the M.S. and PhD 
      	degree programs. Students are subject to the degree requirements as published for their program for the year 
      	in which they matriculate.
Guidelines for earning a Master's on the way to a PhD in either Physics or Astronomy and Astrophysics
Guidelines for completing the PhD in either Physics or Astronomy and Astrophysics, with details of oral 
      	exam requirements and dissertation requirements
Current student fees and tuition
UCLA Campus Services Gateway including information on financial services, campus parking, UCLA events, and a 
      	host of other options and activities
A list of professional societies to help augment your academic involvement
Links to job opportunities through AIP job opportunities and the AAS job register
For more information contact Stephanie Krilov, Graduate Student Affairs, 1-707B PAB, 310-825-2307.
Physics: Earning the PhD degree
For a comprehensive description of the PhD in Physics, consult the
program 
      requirements
.
Course Requirements
Students are required to complete 36 units. Students fulfill the 36-unit requirement by taking the six core courses (24 units), two required 
      non-core courses (4 units) and two elective courses (8 units). No more than eight units may be chosen from Physics 596 and/or seminar courses. Physics 597 and 598 may 
      not be applied toward course requirements for the M.S. degree.
Students are required to enroll in a minimum of 12 units each quarter and maintain a minimum 3.0 GPA.
Written Comprehensive Examination
The written comprehensive exam is described in the
program 
      requirements
. For more information please contact the department's 
      graduate affairs office.
Once a student has completed the required courses and passed the comprehensive exam at the MS level or above, they may file a 
      petition to receive an M.S. degree. For a comprehensive description of the Master’s in Physics,
consult the program 
      requirements
.
Doctoral Committee
Doctoral committees are arranged by the student before the oral qualifying examination. Students are encouraged to consult with their advisor for 
      recommendations on committee members.
To nominate a doctoral committee, please consult the
minimum standards for doctoral committees
and complete the
nomination of doctoral committee form
. The doctoral committee must be approved by Graduate 
      Division before the oral qualifying examination.
Oral Qualifying Examination
The oral qualifying examination is an oral presentation of the student’s proposed dissertation problem.
To schedule the oral qualifying exam, contact your advisor’s administrative assistant to book a room and time for the exam. After you have scheduled the exam, complete 
      the
preparation for oral qualifying exam form
at least two weeks prior to the date of the actual exam.
Upon the successful completion of their oral qualifying examination, students are advanced to candidacy. Full-time students are expected to advance to candidacy 
      by their 9th quarter in residence.
General Guidelines for the Oral Qualifying Exam
The qualifying oral exam is an opportunity to demonstrate to your committee that you have acquired an adequate command of your field and resources to produce original 
      and significant work. The time frame of the exam may vary between one to two hours depending on the discussion time for the committee. The presentation lasts about 30 
      minutes (about 15 slides, 2 minutes per slide). Expect interruptions from committee members in order to ask questions/clarify points and remember to leave time for 
      questions at the end as well.
The presentation itself should cover the following key topics:
1. An introduction to the science of your topic (i.e., why should someone be interested in what you are about to say?)
2. What you've done so far. You will want to discuss background literature and preliminary results, if you have them. It is important to make clear what *you* did 
      when you are giving the background information.
3. Next steps (i.e., what’s your plan for completing the project?). If there are any resources you are counting on (such as the repair or delivery of a big 
      laser) you should talk about that and if there is a chance you won't get it, what is your Plan B?
4. Timeline for completion of project
It is highly recommended that the student consult closely with the advisor about the contents of the examination.
Other general advice:
1. Never have any words, phrases, or plots that you do not understand at least "one sentence deeper". Anything on your slides is fair game for someone to 
      ask "What is xxx?"   If you don't know at all, that does not look good.
2. Have nothing on the slides you do not need. They only distract and waste the time of the person in the audience trying to figure it out. So if for example 
      you take a slide from a publication and it has four curves on it but you only want to talk about one, white-box over the lines or points you are not going to 
      talk about.
3a. *ALL* text and plots on your slides should be clearly legible. If axes numbers cannot be read, you can white-box them over and rewrite your own large 
      numbers.  Or use arrows and big numbers for values. If an axis is labeled with a complicated formula but you only need to say something simple such as "emittance", 
      replace it. If something is not legible and is not necessary, just remove it by cropping or white box. The person in the audience will be annoyed trying to read 
      fonts that are too small. If they are totally unreadable that is a bit insulting to the audience. (The only exception to this rule is if your point is to show 
      something is hopelessly complicated)
3b. The corollary to rule #3 is that you should only have at most two plots per slide, but keep to one. *Extra* plots can go into backup slides.
4. Slide area is valuable. Don't waste it with large repetitive designs etc. from the master. Make sure your plots use all available space even if it means 
      dragging a corner 10% bigger. Legibility goes as the square of the plot area.
5. You need to give a practice talk at least twice. Preferably do it once with a friend and once with your advisor. If you advisor is asking basic questions 
      about your slides and it becomes clear he or she has not seen them before, that will really annoy the other committee members.
Good luck!
Dissertation
Every doctoral degree program requires the completion of an approved dissertation that demonstrates the student's ability to perform original, independent 
      research and constitutes a distinct contribution to knowledge in the principal field of study.
Final Oral Examination
A final oral examination (i.e. defense) is required for all students in the program. Full-time students are expected to defend and submit their Ph.D. 
      dissertations by their 18th quarter in residence. To schedule your defense, consult and complete the
preparation for final oral exam 
      form
.
Filing Your Dissertation
When you are ready to file your dissertation, please consult with
Graduate 
      Division
for deadlines, formatting and other regulations.
Questions?
Contact us by email
or phone 310-206-6994.
Astronomy: Earning the PhD degree
For a comprehensive description of the PhD in Astronomy, consult the
program 
      requirements
.
Course Requirements
Students are required to take seven core courses (Astronomy 270, Astronomy 271A, Astronomy 271B, Astronomy 272, Astronomy 273, Astronomy 274, Astronomy 281) and 
      two elective courses from the following course options: Astronomy 275, Astronomy 276, Astronomy 282, Astronomy 283, and Astronomy 286. Students are required to 
      enroll in a minimum of 12 units per quarter and maintain a 3.0 GPA.
Comprehensive Examination
The purpose of the comprehensive exam is to train students to perform research at the Ph.D. level and is designed to assess both research ability and general 
      knowledge of astronomy and physics at the graduate level.
The comprehensive examination itself is comprised of a written component and an oral component. The written component is the culmination of the second-year research 
      project. The oral component is the presentation of the second-year research project. During the oral presentation, students are expected to respond to questions on their 
      research and to solve basic problems from all core areas of astrophysics. The oral presentation is conducted in the Spring quarter of students’ 2nd year by the 
      comprehensive examination committee, appointed by the vice chair and consisting of three members.
Here is a detailed decription of the Astronomy comprehensive exam
.
Doctoral Committee
Doctoral committees are arranged by the student before the oral qualifying examination. Students are encouraged to consult with their advisor for recommendations on 
      committee members.
To nominate a doctoral committee, please consult the
minimum standards for doctoral 
      committees
and complete the
nomination of doctoral committee form
. The doctoral committee 
      must be approved by Graduate Division before the oral qualifying examination.
Oral Qualifying Examination
The oral qualifying examination, the main purpose of which is to discuss and evaluate the student’s proposed dissertation problem, consists of a written 
      component and an oral component. The written component is a written proposal of a proposed dissertation topic. The oral component is the presentation of the 
      written proposal.
To schedule the oral qualifying exam, contact your advisor’s administrative assistant to book a room and time for the exam. After you have scheduled the 
      exam, complete the
preparation for oral qualifying exam form
at least two weeks prior to the date of the actual exam.
Upon the successful completion of their oral qualifying examination, students are advanced to candidacy. Full-time students are expected to advance to 
      candidacy within 10 quarters.
Dissertation
Every doctoral degree program requires the completion of an approved dissertation that demonstrates the student's ability to perform original, independent 
      research and constitutes a distinct contribution to knowledge in the principal field of study.
Final Oral Examination
A final oral examination (i.e. defense) is required for all students in the program. Full-time students are expected to defend and submit their Ph.D. 
      dissertations by their 18th quarter in residence. To schedule your defense, consult and complete the
preparation for final oral exam 
      form
.
Filing Your Dissertation
When you are ready to file your dissertation, please consult with
Graduate 
      Division
for deadlines, formatting and other regulations.
Questions?
Contact us by email
or phone 310-206-6994.
UCLA Physics & Astronomy Department
Copyright ©
UCLA Physics & Astronomy
475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440
Contact Physics & Astronomy
ABOUT UCLA
UCLA Home
Division of Physical Sciences
UCLA COVID-19 Resources
Maps, directions, and parking
RESOURCES
BruinLearn
Instructional Support
Diversity
Wellness
COVID
Computing and IT Support
Machine Shop and Instrument Fabrication Facility
Research Store
Physics & Astronomy Administration
Demoweb: Lecture demonstration
Demoweb: Lab manuals