UCLA Physics & Astronomy
College
Physical Sciences
Resources
Admission information
Graduate fees
Graduate financial support
Graduate timeline
Physics Graduate Council
Graduate admissions
Applying
Physics: PhD degree
Astronomy: PhD degree
Admissions FAQ
What are the basic requirements to apply to the department? An applicant for admission must hold a bachelor's degree 
      from an accredited college or university and must have the necessary academic preparation to participate successfully 
      in graduate level courses.
For students who are interested in a fee waiver please consult the
Division of Graduate Education’s Admissions website
for more information.
The Department only considers graduate applications for the fall quarter. Applications are evaluated only when all 
      of the materials listed below are received.
What we require
Online graduate 
      	admissions application
.
A statement of purpose.
A personal statement.
Three letters of recommendation: enter names & information of recommenders in the online application; they will receive an email with link to 
      	upload their letter.
Transcripts: All applicants may upload unofficial copies of transcripts with the application for review purposes. If you are recommended for 
      	admission and decide to accept the offer, you must submit final, official copies of your transcript for final approval of your admission by 
      	The Division of Graduate Education’s Graduate Admissions Office.
Test scores
GRE Physics and GRE general scores for the Physics PhD:
GRE (updated for 2024 admissions):
The selection of the Ph.D. students admitted to the Physics program is based on an individualized review of each 
		application. Students who wish to apply for admission to our graduate program for the 2024-2025 academic year are 
		not required to take the GRE or submit a GRE score report as part of their application package. However, students 
		may voluntarily submit GRE test scores and they will be reviewed as part of the holistic application consideration. 
		The applications with GRE scores will not be given greater weight than those that do not include scores.
Students who are admitted and intend to enroll may send official reports to UCLA institution code 4837, major 
    	code 0808.
We will accept GRE scores from tests taken within the last 5 years. If the test was taken multiple times, enter 
		the most recent scores on the online application.
GRE Physics and GRE general scores for the Astronomy & Astrophysics PhD:
GRE (updated for 2024 admissions):
The selection of the Ph.D. students admitted to the Astronomy and Astrophysics program is based on an individualized 
      		review of each application. Students who wish to apply for admission to our graduate program for the 2024-2025 
      		academic year are not required to take the GRE or submit a GRE score report as part of their application package. 
      		However, students may voluntarily submit GRE test scores and they will be reviewed as part of the holistic 
      		application consideration. The applications with GRE scores will not be given greater weight than those that 
      		do not include scores.
Students who are admitted and intend to enroll may send official reports to UCLA institution code 4837, 
      		major code 0801.
We will accept GRE scores from tests taken within the last 5 years. If the test was taken multiple times, 
      		enter the most recent scores on the online application.
TOEFL/IELTS scores (international)
Request official report from ETS – the Physics department major code: 76 / the Astronomy department code: 61. 
      		We will accept TOEFL scores from tests taken within the last 2 years. Acceptable scores include: TOEFL: 570 
      		(paper), 230 (computer), TOEFL IBT: 88, IELTS: 7.0.
Send TOEFL e-scores to the department and IELTS scores to both the Department & Grad Division:
			UCLA Department of Physics & Astronomy, Graduate Office, 430 Portola Plaza, Box 951547, Los Angeles CA 90095-1547
UCLA Graduate Admissions Student & Academic Affairs, 1255 Murphy Hall Box 951428, Los Angeles CA 90095-1428.
Fellowship application
We encourage all U.S. citizens and permanent residents to submit the fellowship application.
For the Astronomy & Astrophysics PhD only
Graduate students from overseas in the Astronomy and Astrophysics PhD program are primarily funded by research grants 
      and teaching assistant positions.  Applicants from overseas interested in applying to the Astronomy and Astrophysics PhD 
      program are urged to contact specific faculty members whose research is of interest to see whether research assistant 
      positions are available. The average Astronomy and Astrophysics PhD program class size is 6 domestic and 1 international.
Deadlines
Deadline to submit application is December 15. Scores and letters should reach us by the first week in January. 
      Note: only the required application items will be evaluated. Do not mail or upload any other supplemental 
      documents or any duplicates of uploaded application items.
Questions?
Contact us by email
or phone 310-206-6994.
Physics: PhD degree
For a comprehensive description of the PhD in Physics, consult the
program 
      requirements
.
Course Requirements
Students are required to complete 36 units. Students fulfill the 36-unit requirement by taking the six core courses (24 units), two required 
      non-core courses (4 units) and two elective courses (8 units). No more than eight units may be chosen from Physics 596 and/or seminar courses. Physics 597 and 598 may 
      not be applied toward course requirements for the M.S. degree.
Students are required to enroll in a minimum of 12 units each quarter and maintain a minimum 3.0 GPA.
Written Comprehensive Examination
The written comprehensive exam is described in the
program 
      requirements
. For more information please contact the department's 
      graduate affairs office.
Once a student has completed the required courses and passed the comprehensive exam at the MS level or above, they may file a 
      petition to receive an M.S. degree. For a comprehensive description of the Master’s in Physics,
consult the program 
      requirements
.
Doctoral Committee
Doctoral committees are arranged by the student before the oral qualifying examination. Students are encouraged to consult with their advisor for 
      recommendations on committee members.
To nominate a doctoral committee, please consult the
minimum standards for doctoral committees
and complete the
nomination of doctoral committee form
. The doctoral committee must be approved by Graduate 
      Division before the oral qualifying examination.
Oral Qualifying Examination
The oral qualifying examination is an oral presentation of the student’s proposed dissertation problem.
To schedule the oral qualifying exam, contact your advisor’s administrative assistant to book a room and time for the exam. After you have scheduled the exam, complete 
      the preparation for oral qualifying exam link (
http://www.pa.ucla.edu/content/preparation-qualifying-or-final-exam
) 
      at least two weeks prior to the date of the actual exam.
Upon the successful completion of their oral qualifying examination, students are advanced to candidacy. Full-time students are expected to advance to candidacy 
      by their 9th quarter in residence.
General Guidelines for the Oral Qualifying Exam
The qualifying oral exam is an opportunity to demonstrate to your committee that you have acquired an adequate command of your field and resources to produce original 
      and significant work. The time frame of the exam may vary between one to two hours depending on the discussion time for the committee. The presentation lasts about 30 
      minutes (about 15 slides, 2 minutes per slide). Expect interruptions from committee members in order to ask questions/clarify points and remember to leave time for 
      questions at the end as well.
The presentation itself should cover the following key topics:
1. An introduction to the science of your topic (i.e., why should someone be interested in what you are about to say?)
2. What you've done so far. You will want to discuss background literature and preliminary results, if you have them. It is important to make clear what *you* did 
      when you are giving the background information.
3. Next steps (i.e., what’s your plan for completing the project?). If there are any resources you are counting on (such as the repair or delivery of a big 
      laser) you should talk about that and if there is a chance you won't get it, what is your Plan B?
4. Timeline for completion of project
It is highly recommended that the student consult closely with the advisor about the contents of the examination.
Other general advice:
1. Never have any words, phrases, or plots that you do not understand at least "one sentence deeper". Anything on your slides is fair game for someone to 
      ask "What is xxx?"   If you don't know at all, that does not look good.
2. Have nothing on the slides you do not need. They only distract and waste the time of the person in the audience trying to figure it out. So if for example 
      you take a slide from a publication and it has four curves on it but you only want to talk about one, white-box over the lines or points you are not going to 
      talk about.
3a. *ALL* text and plots on your slides should be clearly legible. If axes numbers cannot be read, you can white-box them over and rewrite your own large 
      numbers.  Or use arrows and big numbers for values. If an axis is labeled with a complicated formula but you only need to say something simple such as "emittance", 
      replace it. If something is not legible and is not necessary, just remove it by cropping or white box. The person in the audience will be annoyed trying to read 
      fonts that are too small. If they are totally unreadable that is a bit insulting to the audience. (The only exception to this rule is if your point is to show 
      something is hopelessly complicated)
3b. The corollary to rule #3 is that you should only have at most two plots per slide, but keep to one. *Extra* plots can go into backup slides.
4. Slide area is valuable. Don't waste it with large repetitive designs etc. from the master. Make sure your plots use all available space even if it means 
      dragging a corner 10% bigger. Legibility goes as the square of the plot area.
5. You need to give a practice talk at least twice. Preferably do it once with a friend and once with your advisor. If you advisor is asking basic questions 
      about your slides and it becomes clear he or she has not seen them before, that will really annoy the other committee members.
Good luck!
Dissertation
Every doctoral degree program requires the completion of an approved dissertation that demonstrates the student's ability to perform original, independent 
      research and constitutes a distinct contribution to knowledge in the principal field of study.
Final Oral Examination
A final oral examination (i.e. defense) is required for all students in the program. Full-time students are expected to defend and submit their Ph.D. 
      dissertations by their 18th quarter in residence. To schedule your defense, consult and complete the
preparation for final oral exam 
      form
.
Filing Your Dissertation
When you are ready to file your dissertation, please consult with
Graduate 
      Division
for deadlines, formatting and other regulations.
Questions?
Contact us by email
or phone 310-206-6994.
Astronomy: PhD degree
For a comprehensive description of the PhD in Astronomy, consult the
program 
      requirements
.
Course Requirements
Students are required to take seven core courses (Astronomy 270, Astronomy 271, Astronomy 272, Astronomy 273, Astronomy 274, Astronomy 280, 
      and Astronomy 281) and two elective courses from the following course options: Astronomy 275, Astronomy 276, Astronomy 282, Astronomy 283, 
      and Astronomy 286. Students are also strongly encouraged to take Astronomy 284 in each of their first two years of the program. Students are 
      required to enroll in a minimum of 12 units per quarter and maintain a 3.0 GPA.
Comprehensive Examination
The purpose of the comprehensive exam is to train students to perform research at the Ph.D. level and is designed to assess both research ability and general 
      knowledge of astronomy and physics at the graduate level.
The comprehensive examination itself is comprised of a written component and an oral component. The written component is the culmination of the second-year research 
      project. The oral component is the presentation of the second-year research project. During the oral presentation, students are expected to respond to questions on their 
      research and to solve basic problems from all core areas of astrophysics. The oral presentation is conducted in the Spring quarter of students’ 2nd year by the 
      comprehensive examination committee, appointed by the vice chair and consisting of three members.
Here is a detailed decription of the Astronomy comprehensive exam
.
Doctoral Committee
Doctoral committees are arranged by the student before the oral qualifying examination. Students are encouraged to consult with their advisor for recommendations on 
      committee members.
To nominate a doctoral committee, please consult the
minimum standards for doctoral 
      committees
and complete the
nomination of doctoral committee form
. The doctoral committee 
      must be approved by Graduate Division before the oral qualifying examination.
Oral Qualifying Examination
The oral qualifying examination, the main purpose of which is to discuss and evaluate the student’s proposed dissertation problem, consists of a written 
      component and an oral component. The written component is a written proposal of a proposed dissertation topic. The oral component is the presentation of the 
      written proposal.
To schedule the oral qualifying exam, contact your advisor’s administrative assistant to book a room and time for the exam. After you have scheduled the 
      exam, complete the
preparation for oral qualifying exam form
at least two weeks prior to the date of the actual exam.
Upon the successful completion of their oral qualifying examination, students are advanced to candidacy. Full-time students are expected to advance to 
      candidacy within 10 quarters.
Dissertation
Every doctoral degree program requires the completion of an approved dissertation that demonstrates the student's ability to perform original, independent 
      research and constitutes a distinct contribution to knowledge in the principal field of study.
Final Oral Examination
A final oral examination (i.e. defense) is required for all students in the program. Full-time students are expected to defend and submit their Ph.D. 
      dissertations by their 18th quarter in residence. To schedule your defense, consult and complete the
preparation for final oral exam 
      form
.
Filing Your Dissertation
When you are ready to file your dissertation, please consult with
Graduate 
      Division
for deadlines, formatting and other regulations.
Questions?
Contact us by email
or phone 310-206-6994.
Graduate FAQ (frequently asked questions)
What are the basic requirements to apply to the department?
An applicant for admission must hold a bachelor's degree from an accredited college or university and must have the necessary 
      academic preparation to participate successfully in graduate level courses.
Are there any required courses for admission to the program?
There are no specific course requirements for admission. However, prospective students interested in applying to the Physics 
      program should demonstrate a solid background in undergraduate physics. Similarly, prospective students interested in applying to 
      the Astronomy program should demonstrate a solid background in undergraduate astronomy.
Can I defer my application fee?
The application fee must be paid before an application can be considered. UCLA accepts Visa, Mastercard and Discover.
What is the admission timeline for Physics and Astronomy?
The Astronomy division and Physics division have separate admission committees. Both committees begin evaluating applications 
      mid-January. Offers of admission are typically made in February and March.
What does the department look for when making admission decisions?
Both divisions look at undergraduate grades (official transcripts), GRE general and subject (physics) scores, letters of 
      recommendation, and the statement of purpose.
Do I need to choose between the physics and astronomy divisions when I apply?
Yes. Although we are one department, each division has its own admission committee and its own curriculum.
What is the procedure to transfer to UCLA from another graduate program?
All applicants use the same application form. The department will recognize graduate level courses completed in other institutions 
      if verified by an official transcript.
What is the department's application deadline?
We strongly suggest you submit your application form online by December 15 and scores & letters by the first week of January.
What application materials are required by the department?
We require these materials:
General and subject physics GRE exam scores are not required for the Physics PhD program for the 2024-2025 academic 
      	year. General and subject Physics GRE exam scores are recommended but not required for the Astronomy and Astrophysics 
      	PhD program. General and subject Physics GRE exam scores should be taken by October.
TOEFL or IELTS exam scores for applicants whose first language is not English. Please see The Division of Graduate Education’s admissions 
      	website for further details: English Requirements:
https://grad.ucla.edu/admissions/english-requirements/
.
One set of transcripts (an unofficial copy may be uploaded in the application for review purposes).
Statement of purpose
Personal statement
Three letters of recommendation
Do I need to submit all application materials before my application will be reviewed and evaluated?
Applications are not submitted to the committee until the application fee is paid and the department has received all application material.
Should I mail copies of forms I have already uploaded on the online application?
If you have already uploaded a form (for example, the statement of purpose) in the online application, please do not mail in a copy.
Can I upload or mail in my CV or resume and publications?
CVs, resumes, copies of awards and publications are not required documents and should not be uploaded or mailed to the department.
Who should author my letters of recommendation?
At least two of your letters of recommendation should be from academic references. If you have a Master of Science, we would like letters 
      from both your Bachelor and Master of Science institutions.
What is necessary to qualify as a resident of California?
U.S. citizens or permanent residents can usually become California residents after living in the state for one year. If you are admitted 
      to the graduate program, you should contact the Registrar's Office, Residence Classifications (1113 Murphy Hall) upon arrival at UCLA for 
      complete details on establishing California Residency.
How will I know if I have been recommended for admission?
If you are recommended for admission, the department will inform you of its decision and financial package via email. Typically, 
      all recommendations for admission are made by April 1. You may also check admission decision status online using your same email address 
      and password as when you applied.
What type of financial support may I expect if I am recommended for admission?
Typically graduate students are awarded at least a Teaching Assistantship for up to 12 quarters. International students are eligible for 
      a Teaching Assistantship after they pass the Test of Oral Proficiency (TOP) administered by UCLA's Office of Instructional Development.
What are your code numbers for test scores?
Institution: 4837
GRE Physics: 0808
GRE Astronomy: 0802
TOEFL: 76
What test dates are acceptable?
We will accept GRE scores from tests taken within the last 5 years and TOEFL scores within 2 years. If test taken multiple times, enter the 
      most recent scores on the online application. If not taken yet, enter expected test date.
What test scores are acceptable?
TOEFL: 570 (paper), 230 (computer)
TOEFL IBT: 88
IELTS: 7.0
Are copies of scores acceptable?
Unofficial copies of scores are acceptable for review purposes but official copies from ETS are required for official admission to the university.
Who is exempt from the TOEFL and/or ESLPE requirement?
Applicants who hold a Bachelor or higher degree from a university located in the United States or in another country in 
      which English is the spoken language and the medium of instruction, or who have completed at least two years of full-time 
      study at such an institution, are exempted from both the TOEFL requirement and the ESLPE. Please be sure to include such 
      information and transcripts in your application.
Questions?
Contact us by email
or phone 310-206-6994.
UCLA Physics & Astronomy Department
Copyright ©
UCLA Physics & Astronomy
475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440
Contact Physics & Astronomy
ABOUT UCLA
UCLA Home
Division of Physical Sciences
UCLA COVID-19 Resources
Maps, directions, and parking
RESOURCES
BruinLearn
Instructional Support
Diversity
Wellness
COVID
Computing and IT Support
Machine Shop and Instrument Fabrication Facility
Research Store
Physics & Astronomy Administration
Demoweb: Lecture demonstration
Demoweb: Lab manuals