UCLA Physics & Astronomy
College
Physical Sciences
Resources
Admission information
Graduate fees
Graduate financial support
Graduate timeline
UCLA PhD Physics Bridge Program
Physics Graduate Council
Frequently asked admissions questions
American Physical Society
American Institute for Physics
Americal Astronomical Society
National Science Foundation
NASA
AIP PhysicsToday Jobs
AAS Job Register
UCLA PhD Physics Bridge Program
What is the Ph.D. Physics Bridge Program at UCLA?
The Ph.D. Physics Bridge program in the Department of Physics and Astronomy at UCLA is an effort to recruit and retain 
      promising underrepresented minority (URM) undergraduates to our Ph.D. program.  The program is intended for students with 
      a bachelor's degree in physics or related field with a strong motivation to pursue a Ph.D. but who could additional 
      coursework, training, research experience, and mentorship.
Admitted students receive full funding for two years to complete the necessary advanced undergraduate and core graduate 
      coursework in a supportive, vibrant and intellectual environment. Admitted students also gain the benefits of considerable 
      mentoring.  Each student is assigned a faculty mentor with whom they meet regularly and gain valuable insights about graduate 
      school and careers, a graduate student peer mentor, and a faculty research mentor who will help them hone their research 
      interests, learn specialized research techniques, and navigate the process of cutting-edge research.
Bridge students will continue in the Physics Ph.D. program upon completion of the required coursework and receiving a 
      pass at the Ph.D. level on the written physics comprehensive exam.
Who is eligible to apply?
Each eligible applicant must meet these requirements:
Have a strong desire to pursue a Ph.D. in Physics at UCLA
Be a U.S. citizen or permanent resident
Have a bachelor's degree in physics or a closely related field
Have a degree completed by the time the student would enter the program
A student who is currently enrolled or has already completed a graduate program in physics, including a Master's degree, 
      	is not eligible to apply
The student must not have been accepted to one or more physics graduate programs in the current academic year, either 
      	because they have not applied or have not been accepted
Be committed to contributing to diversity in physics and in the department
How do I apply for the Bridge program?
Applications are handled through APS at
http://www.apsbridgeprogram.org/
.
What is it like to be a Bridge student at UCLA?
Bridge students are immersed in the world-class intellectual environment in which all UCLA Physics and Astronomy students are 
      immersed. Bridge students are given time to complete necessary advanced undergraduate and core graduate coursework.
Bridge students also benefit from substantial peer mentoring. Before starting their first year as a graduate student, Bridge 
      students are assigned both a general faculty mentor and a faculty research mentor to help them navigate the process of matriculating 
      at UCLA Physics and Astronomy.  Every incoming student works with the undergraduate advisor, the graduate advisor, and the director 
      of the program to chart a course of study for the first year in preparation for completion of core graduate coursework.
Every incoming student is awarded the Cota-Robles fellowship and is, therefore, fully funded for the duration of the two-year 
      bridge program. In the summer prior to their first academic year, students are also awarded with participation in the Competitive 
      Edge program, which provides them with research and professional development experiences. Summer funding will also be provided.
During their first year, Bridge students begin executing their individualized plan of study, begin to engage in research with 
      their faculty research mentor, and engage in social and professional activities.  During the summer following their first year, 
      students engage in full-time research with their research mentor.  During their second year, Bridge students complete the necessary 
      graduate coursework, continue research with their faculty research mentor and begin to prepare for the comprehensive exam. The 
      summer after their second year, students concentrate on research and preparation for the comprehensive exam the following fall 
      quarter. Students who successfully complete this two-year timeline of study and research will be well-prepared to enter the Ph.D. 
      program in Physics at UCLA or at any other program of their choice.
Program directors are
Dr. Françoise Queval
and Professor
Zhongbo Kang
. The faculty contact is Professor
Smadar Naoz
.
UCLA Physics & Astronomy Department
Copyright ©
UCLA Physics & Astronomy
475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440
Contact Physics & Astronomy
ABOUT UCLA
UCLA Home
Division of Physical Sciences
UCLA COVID-19 Resources
Maps, directions, and parking
RESOURCES
BruinLearn
Instructional Support
Diversity
Wellness
COVID
Computing and IT Support
Machine Shop and Instrument Fabrication Facility
Research Store
Physics & Astronomy Administration
Demoweb: Lecture demonstration
Demoweb: Lab manuals