UCLA Physics & Astronomy
College
Physical Sciences
Research
Astronomy and Astrophysics Division
Atomic-Molecular-Optical (AMO)
Hard Condensed Matter
Soft Condensed Matter
Experimental Elementary Particle Physics
Theoretical Elementary Particle Physics (TEP)
Theory of Elementary Particles, Astroparticle Physics, and Phenomenology (TEPAPP)
Nuclear Physics
Plasma and Advanced Accelerators
The Science of Teaching and Learning
Institutes
Mani L. Bhaumik Institute of Theoretical Physics
Plasma Science and Technology Institute (PSTI)
California Nanosystems Institute (CNSI)
Institute for Digital Research and Education (IDRE)
Research areas
Astronomy and Astrophysics Division
Groundbreaking research, cutting-edge 
      technology, award-winning faculty – UCLA’s Division of Astronomy & Astrophysics offers a rewarding environment to pursue higher education 
      and topical research. All members of the Division carry out active research programs that garner widespread international recognition. 
      Doctoral students can participate in a variety of research projects.
Research activities include the following areas.
Extrasolar Planets and Planetary Science
Astroparticle physics
Galactic Center Group
Click here to view details of the Astronomy and Astrophysics Division research
Faculty Research
Eric Becklin
focuses on the observational studies of the regions around the Massive Black Hole 
      			in the center of the Milky Way and other regions of star formation in the Galaxy. He is the Chief Scientific Advisor on SOFIA.
Tuan Do
works to understand the formation of the nuclei of galaxies - He's currently studying the composition and star formation history of the Milky Way nuclear star 
      			cluster and how these stars interact with the supermassive black hole at the Galactic center.
Mike Fitzgerald
is interested in extrasolar planets and their formation using indirect and direct techniques such as adaptive optics, coronagraphy, and interferometry. 
      			He also works to develop infrared instrumentation.
Steve Furlanetto
studies theoretically the first galaxies in the Universe and their effects on the Universe around them.
Andrea Ghez
is carrying out a diffraction-limited study of the Galaxy's central stellar cluster. This program has provided strong evidence for a supermassive black hole at the center 
      			of the Milky Way and is continuing to study the environs of this region.
Brad Hansen
studies the evolution of white dwarf stars and the formation and evolution of planetary systems.
James Larkin
uses infrared spectroscopy and diffraction limited imaging to study nearby galaxies.
Matthew Malkan
investigates active galactic nuclei, quasars, and the evolution of young galaxies.
Ian McLean
is director of the Infrared Astronomy Laboratory at UCLA and studies sub-stellar mass objects (brown dwarfs).
Mark Morris
studies the fate of massive stars and star clusters at the Galactic center, and is trying to determine the character and the origin of the magnetic field in the central few hundred 
      			parsecs of the Galaxy. He also studies the hot, diffuse gas at the Galactic center with the Chandra and XMM X-ray observatories.
Smadar Naoz
is studying structure formation in the very early Universe. This involves both analytical and numerical simulations 
      			of the first gas rich and poor objects.
William Newman
is a professor in the Departments of Earth, Planetary, and Space Sciences, Physics and Astronomy, and Mathematics. 
      			His astrophysical research focuses on the the dynamics and statistics of galaxy clusters, magnetic fields in the intercluster medium, 
      			and accretion processes in AGNs. His broader research relates to nonlinear dynamical problems, such as those encountered in solar system 
      			dynamics.
Rene Ong's
research focuses on the astrophysics of the high-energy Universe, as revealed by gamma rays and cosmic rays, and on the quest to 
      			understand the nature of dark matter.
Erik Petigura's
main research interests are the discovery and characterization of extrasolar planets, using ground- and space-based telescopes.
Michael Rich
of the Galaxy Evolution Explorer team focuses on using GALEX to address star formation in the universe.
Shoko Sakai
investigates star formation rate and 3D structure of the local universe.
Alice Shapley
explores optical/infrared imaging and spectroscopic observations of high-redshift galaxies.
Jean Turner
studies star formation in 
      			starbursts, especially super star cluster formation.
Vladimir Vassiliev
uses ground-based gamma-ray astronomy with VERITAS and Whipple to study Extragalactic Background Light and high energy gamma ray sources.
Edward (Ned) Wright
is interested in infrared astronomy and cosmology. He is the PI on the Wide-field Infrared Survey Explorer (WISE).
Atomic-Molecular-Optical (AMO) Physics
The UCLA AMO group 
      		develops methods to bring new forms of quantum matter under control and uses existing systems to 
      		demonstrate new technologies and measurements. Goals include understanding quantum magnetism using 
      		quantum information protocols in trapped ions, and developing new methods for producing ultracold molecules and molecular ions.
Research activities include the following areas.
Campbell Group
Hamilton Group
Hudson Group
Center for Quantum Science and Engineering
Click here to view details of AMO research
Wes Campbell
uses ultra-cold atoms and molecules to learn about the physical processes that permeate our world, focusing 
      			specifically on the physics of quantum mechanical systems that involve many-body interactions.
Paul Hamilton
explores a new direction for the field using atom interferometry to probe the properties of dark matter and dark 
      			energy using laser-cooled atoms.
Eric Hudson
focuses on understanding and harnessing the power of quantum interactions to to enable new tests of fundamental 
      			physics and new technology.
Hard Condensed Matter
This Physics & Astronomy faculty group is active in the 
      	discovery of novel electronic materials, correlated electron 
      	systems, unconventional superconductivity, quantum magnetism, heavy-fermion physics, quantum critical phenomena, semiconductor physics, spintronics, 
      	quantum statistical mechanics and field theory, topological states of matter, and Majorana fermions.
Research activities include the following areas.
Click here to view details of the Hard Condensed Matter research
Stuart Brown
investigates the roles of dimensionality, electronic correlations, and disorder in the properties of electronic materials. Most of 
      			the systems we study are quasi-one dimensional or quasi-two dimensional crystals, and in some cases powders.
Sudip Chakravarty's
research interest involves quantum theory of collective behavior of electronic systems. He is interested in theories of 
      			high temperature superconductivity, dissipative quantum systems, quantum phase transition and criticality, localization transition in interacting 
      			systems, and the concept of von Neumann entropy in quantum phase transitions.
Christopher Gutiérrez
investigates the quantum properties of low-dimensional materials using atomically-resolved scanning probe and momentum-resolved photoemission 
      			experiments.
Karoly Holczer
studies experimental condensed matter physics, organic conductors and superconductors, and electron paramagnetic resonance.
HongWen Jiang
focuses on experiments on the interactions between electrons and magnetic fields in various quantum Hall systems and electron 
      			localization phenomena.
Anshul Kogar
studies highly nonlinear effects with ultrafast probes of materials.
Ni Ni
focuses on the characterization of physical properties and structures of materials through thermodynamic, transport, X-ray and neutron 
      			measurements, with an emphasis on the design, synthesis, and crystal growth of new materials.
B. Chris Regan's
long term goals include a better understanding of the overlap between thermodynamics and quantum mechanics, and the construction of 
      			a model system for the investigation of clean energy harvesting. Areas of expertise include carbon nanotubes, graphene, nanofabrication and in situ 
      			transmission electron microscopy.
Rahul Roy's
work is in the field of condensed matter theory, which is devoted to the study of systems with many particles where quantum effects 
      			are important. A particular theme of his research is the study of topological phases and other topological aspects of condensed matter.
Qianhui Shi
studies quantum phases of matter built from 2D van der Waals materials.  Main research approaches include the designing and fabrication of novel device structures, quantum transport and capacitance measurements at low temperatures and high magnetic fields.
Yaroslav Tserovnyak
studies quantum transport and nonequilibrium dynamics in 
      			low-dimensional electron systems, with a focus on spin and topology.
Emeritus:
George Grüner
Electron states of matter, applied nanotechnology
Gary A. Williams
Acoustics and Low-Temperature Physics
Soft Condensed Matter
Research includes acoustic 
      	and low temperature physics studies such as theoretical investigations into the superfluid phase transition of liquid helium and search for the phenomenon of 
      	sonoluminescence in cryogenic liquids, such as alcohols, liquid nitrogen and liquid oxygen. The group has an active research program in microrheology, 
      	nanoemulsions, light and neutron scattering, and microfluidics.
Research activities include the following areas.
Center for Biological Physics
Molecular Biophysics & Nanoscience
Putterman Lab
UCLA Coherent Imaging Group
Click here to view details of the Soft Condensed Matter research
Katsushi Arisaka's
prime interest is to understand the origin of the Universe, life and consciousness altogether by yet-to-be-discovered physics laws. 
      			In particular he is interested in how the Universe evolved at its earliest stage.
Dolores Bozovic
focuses on problems at the interface between physics and sensory neuroscience.
Robijn Bruinsma's
current work concerns the application of theoretical physics and numerical modeling to molecular biology.
Alexander Levine
studies a variety of problems in the field of soft condensed matter and biophysics.
Mayank Mehta
studies fundamental questions in neurophysics.
Jianwei (John) Miao’s
research interests lie in the interplay of physics, materials science, nanoscience, and biology. He has developed 
      			groundbreaking physical methods for high-resolution 3D imaging of nanoscale materials and biological specimens.
Seth Putterman
investigates the non-linear physics of off-equilibrium motion, including sonoluminescence from molten salts, cavitation within 
      			gel-like materials, theory and experiment aimed at defining the intermediate model of tribo-x-ray emission, enhanced neutron emission from dense plasma 
      			focusing, and ion-acoustic modes of long-lived dense plasmas.
Joseph Rudnick
researches a variety of problems in condensed matter physics, with primary interests in the general field of statistical mechanics.
Shenshen Wang
focuses on biophysical systems where collective responses emerge from a large and structured collection of interacting components. Two 
      			systems of main focus are the adaptive immune system and active matter, a condensed matter system comprised of numerous self-driven subunits.
Giovanni Zocchi
focuses on the physics of macromolecules such as proteins and DNA.
Experimental Elementary Particle Physics
EEP is involved in experimental and theoretical research in the areas of dark matter, high-energy astrophysics (using 
      	gamma rays, cosmic rays and neutrinos), cosmology, and physics at the Large Hadron Collider.
Research activities include the following areas.
Astroparticle Physics
Click here to view details of the Experimental Elementary Particle Physics research
Michalis Bachtis
is focused in the energy frontier of particle physics where, along with his other UCLA colleagues, he participates in the 
      			Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) experiment at CERN's Large Hadron Collider.
Robert Cousins
devotes essentially all of his research time to the CMS Experiment at CERN in Geneva, 
      			along with other colleagues in the UCLA CMS Group.
Jay Hauser
researches elementary particle physics at the CMS experiment at CERN.
Rene Ong's
research focuses on the astrophysics of the high-energy Universe, as revealed by gamma rays and cosmic rays, and on the quest to 
      			understand the nature of dark matter.
David Saltzberg's
research is conducted at the Large Hadron Collider at CERN. He has built detectors and electronics for muon detection for the Compact Muon Solenoid (CMS) detector.  He is analyzing the data, looking for new physics in events with two Higgs bosons.
Alvine Kamaha is a researcher and educator in Theoretical and Experimental physics. She is passionate about Astroparticle 
      			Physics (Neutrino Physics and Dark Matter searches) and Science, Technology, Engineering, and Mathematics (STEM) 
      			education and outreach geared towards the younger generation and visible minorities in STEM.
Theoretical Elementary Particles
The goal of TEP is to attain 
      	a fundamental description of the laws of physics, the constituents of matter and their interactions. Research 
      	spans the areas of perturbative gauge theories, lattice gauge 
      	theories, non-perturbative gauge theories, quantum gravity and string theory. With funding from DOE and NSF the group supports 
      	several postdocs and students each year.
Research activities include the following areas.
Theoretical Elementary Particle Physics Group
Click here to view details of the Theoretical Elementary Particle Physics research
Ernest Abers
studies gauge theories, supersymmetry, weak interaction phenomenology.
Zvi Bern's
primary interest is in developing new methods for calculating and understanding scattering amplitudes. He 
      			is especially interested in applications to LHC physics and to maximally supersymmetric gauge and gravity theories.
Eric D'Hoker
focuses on quantum field theory and string theory, with applications to particle physics, and occasionally 
      			to condensed matter physics and mathematics.
Thomas Dumitrescu's
research spans many aspects of quantum field theory, including applications to particle and condensed 
      			matter physics, as well as supersymmetry, string theory, and mathematical physics. He is particularly interested in developing 
      			new theoretical tools for analyzing strongly-coupled quantum field theories, which are beyond the reach of conventional 
      			perturbation theory.
Sergio Ferrara's
main research interests are in modern theories of gravitation and unification of fundamental 
      			interactions through the principle of symmetries.
Robert Finkelstein
has been applying quantum groups to investigate weak deformations of quantum mechanics and quantum 
      			field theory.
Christian Fronsdal's
research involves investigations in general relativity, hydrodynamics, and thermodynamics.
Michael Gutperle's
research is focused on theoretical particle physics, quantum gravity and string theory.
Per Kraus
works on problems involving quantum field theory, string theory, classical and quantum gravity. These frequently 
      			involve black holes and the AdS/CFT correspondence.
Terry Tomboulis'
current interests are focused on nonperturbative aspects of field theory such as the infrared behavior of 
      			QCD and the phenomenon of quark confinement.
Theory of Elementary Particles, Astroparticle Physics, and Phenomenology
The goal of theoretical 
      	particle physics is to attain a fundamental description of the laws of physics, the constituents of matter and their 
      	interactions. Physicists believe that the Standard Model (SM) of elementary particles must be part of a more fundamental 
      	theory of nature beyond the Standard Model. The search for new physics is the major thrust of current research in particle 
      	physics.
Research activities include the following areas.
Theory of Elementary Particles, Astroparticle Physics, and Phenomenology Group
Click here to view details of TEPAPP research
Graciela Gelmini
has been working on astro-particle physics, especially in the problem of dark matter, 
      			where she has studied different dark matter particle candidates. She is also interested in different aspects of the physics 
      			of neutrinos.
Alexander Kusenko
works on a broad range of topics in elementary particle physics, astrophysics, and cosmology.
Roberto Peccei
has been mainly working on B and K physics, in particular the physics of heavy quark decays, 
      			B meson mixing, and CP violation. He has been also interested in various aspects of electroweak interactions and 
      			dynamical mass generation.
Terry Tomboulis'
current interests are focused on nonperturbative aspects of field theory such as the infrared behavior of 
      			QCD and the phenomenon of quark confinement.
Nuclear Physics
The nuclear physics research is 
      	focused on understanding the matter composed of quarks and gluons as described by Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD), which makes up 
      	99% of the visible mass of the universe; as well as the fundamental nature of the neutrinos. Current research includes both 
      	experimental nuclear physics and theoretical nuclear physics.
Research activities include the following areas.
Nuclear Physics Group
Click here to view details of Nuclear Physics research
Huan Huang
study the properties of the QCD matter at extremely high energy density and temperature and investigate the 
      			QCD spin structure functions of the proton.
Zhongbo Kang's
interests are primarily in Quantum Chromodynamics (QCD) and strong 
      			interaction, and their applications in high energy nuclear and particle physics, with main research efforts in QCD structure of the 
      			nucleon, QCD collider physics, and heavy ion physics.
Chun Wa Wong's
interests include nuclear forces and nuclear properties, quark and Skyrmion models of hadrons, and
      			cross sections for Pomeron exchange and dibaryon production.
Plasma and Advanced Accelerators
Beam physics is a vibrant, 
      	cross-disciplinary enterprise, which intersects heavily with high-energy density science, plasma physics, ultra-fast lasers, 
      	nonlinear dynamics and various high-field/high-power technologies. Areas of study include basic plasma physics, fusion research, 
      	space plasma physics, laser-plasma interactions, and advanced accelerators.
Research activities include the following areas.
Basic Plasma Science Facility
Particle Beam Physics Lab
Plasma Diagnostics Group
UCLA Plasma Simulation Group
Click here to view details of Plasma and Advanced Accelerators research
Troy Carter's
research involves experiments in laboratory plasmas and seeks to understand phenomena relevant to 
      			magnetic confinement fusion energy and to astrophysical plasmas.
Neal A. Crocker
is involved in cutting edge fusion research at multiple fusion 
      			research facilities both in the US and around the world.
Walter Gekelman
studies microscopic phenomena on the fast electron time scales (e.g., electron plasma waves, 
      			cyclotron radiation) to the slow time scales characteristic of plasma transport driven by drift‐wave turbulence 
      			and long wavelength magnetic fluctuations.
George Morales
pursues research in plasma physics, nonlinear waves, heating of thermonuclear fusion plasmas, 
      			ionosphere modification, laboratory simulation of space phenomena, and non-diffusive transport.
Pietro Musumeci
researches laser technology to provide high quality, ultra-short particle beams from compact accelerators.
Warren Mori
develops and uses state-of-the-art simulation tools to study laser and beam interactions in high 
      			energy density plasmas.
Christoph Niemann
studies high energy density plasmas.
James Rosenzweig's
studies includes the creation of ultra-fast, high-brightness electron beams; the application 
      			of such beams to advanced accelerators using lasers and/or plasmas; the creation of new types of light sources, 
      			such as free-electron lasers and inverse-Compton scattering sources based on high brightness electron beams.
Derek Schaeffer
researches experiments and numerical simulations of strongly-driven magnetized plasma interactions relevant to astrophysical systems, inertial fusion energy, and high-energy-density plasmas, with emphasis on novel diagnostic techniques.
The Science of Teaching and Learning
The science of teaching and learning 
      	is a multidisciplinary field that attempts to illuminate the mechanisms underlying human learning in an effort to optimize education.  
      	Our research at UCLA focuses on how course design decisions impact student application and retention of physics and mathematics skills.
Research activities include the following areas.
The Science of Teaching and Learning
Click here to view details of the Science of Teaching research
Josh Samani's
doctoral research was in high-energy physics and centered on 
      			aspects of holography -- the AdS/CFT correspondence in particular.
UCLA Physics & Astronomy Department
Copyright ©
UCLA Physics & Astronomy
475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440
Contact Physics & Astronomy
ABOUT UCLA
UCLA Home
Division of Physical Sciences
UCLA COVID-19 Resources
Maps, directions, and parking
RESOURCES
BruinLearn
Instructional Support
Diversity
Wellness
COVID
Computing and IT Support
Machine Shop and Instrument Fabrication Facility
Research Store
Physics & Astronomy Administration
Demoweb: Lecture demonstration
Demoweb: Lab manuals