UCLA Physics & Astronomy
College
Physical Sciences
Resources
Admission information
Majors and requirements
Tuition and fees
Departmental Honors
Draft schedule of Physics/Astro classes for AY2022-23
Schedule of classes
Physics 1A/B/C and Physics 5A/B/C
Descriptions of courses required for the Physics major
Research Experience for Undergraduates
Facebook undergraduate advising
AIP PhysicsToday Jobs
AAS Job Register
Undergraduate program
Physics is a foundational science aimed at discovering the laws of nature. It provides an understanding of our physical world. All 
      phenomena, ranging from the study of the nature of the universe to subatomic interactions to complex molecular theory, are of interest 
      to physicists. Because it is so encompassing, physics is the foundation of all other sciences.
Specialties well represented in UCLA Physics & Astronomy
include Condensed Matter Physics, Elementary Particle Physics, Plasma Physics, 
      Nuclear Physics, Atomic-Molecular-Optical Physics, Accelerator Physics, Biophysics, and Astrophysics. We offer four different undergraduate 
      majors.
BS in Physics
. This option provides majors with a solid preparation to universally-acknowledged core physics concepts, both in the classroom 
      and in the laboratory setting.
BA in Physics
. This specialization is intended to provide a strong background in physics, yet allows students flexibility for study in other 
      fields as well. It will be of particular interest to students who want to choose a double major or who want to teach science.
BS in Biophysics
. This major provides the scientific training in physics plus studies in molecular biology, both necessary for intellectual 
      integration of those two fields. Molecular biophysics is emerging as an important area of scientific research and aims at understanding the 
      complicated behavior of microbiological and macromolecular systems.
BS in Astronomy and Astrophysics
. Astrophysics is the application of physics to the cosmos. It answers questions concerning the nature, workings, origin, 
      and evolution of the universe. Skills aquired by our majors include analytical thinking, problem-solving techniques, a fundamental 
      understanding of the physicsal universe, a strong foundation in mathematics, and a familiarity with technical scientific equipment and computing.
Careers for physics majors are extremely varied. Among these many exciting pathways: academic, governmental, or corporate research, engineering, 
      teaching hardware and software development. Our majors are often accepted to medical and law schools, and many find themselves in fields such as 
      banking, finance, management, entertainment, and government.
Undergraduate office:
Françoise Queval
, Student Affairs Officer, 1-707A PAB, 310-825-2453 or
Mary Tran
, Student Affairs Officer, PAB 1-707D, 
      310-206-1447.
Or use this form to contact us directly
.
UCLA Physics & Astronomy Department
Copyright ©
UCLA Physics & Astronomy
475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440
Contact Physics & Astronomy
ABOUT UCLA
UCLA Home
Division of Physical Sciences
UCLA COVID-19 Resources
Maps, directions, and parking
RESOURCES
BruinLearn
Instructional Support
Diversity
Wellness
COVID
Computing and IT Support
Machine Shop and Instrument Fabrication Facility
Research Store
Physics & Astronomy Administration
Demoweb: Lecture demonstration
Demoweb: Lab manuals