B.A. in World Arts and Cultures • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures
We emphasize studies in arts activism, visual cultures, and critical ethnographies. Theory and practice emerge from culturally diverse artistic expressions.
The BA in World Arts and Cultures (WAC) enables students to critically examine and constructively engage the social and cultural contexts that shape artists and their creativity. Our interdisciplinary curriculum accentuates those local histories and global influences that inform ethnographic, curatorial, creative and scholarly praxis, as well as activist politics and questions of social justice.
The Major encourages students to understand the making and reception of arts and social movements through a critical lens that is rooted in a range of cultural and postcolonial theories. As such, education in this Major is built on the dialogue between theory and practice, between creative work and critical analysis. Our faculty have specialties ranging from documentary filmmaking and theory, health and healing, community engagement, ethnography, critical curatorial studies, research methodologies, critical race studies, art direction, digital culture and surveillance studies, Indigenous studies, prison abolition, spoken word, feminist theory and more.
In our courses, we take care to learn from and with community members, drawing on the long term partnerships that characterize our faculty’s research. We anchor our curriculum in a range of intersectional practices, including arts activism, critical theory, and inquiry into multiple visual mediums. Our curriculum is composed of lower and upper division courses as well as an optional senior focus on praxis.
First, our preparation for the major introduces students to the study of cultural practices, and how they represent as well as enact and intervene in lived experience. Lower division core courses provide students key concepts in the study of cultures, arts and field based research methods. One of the five courses, WAC2, is a lower division seminar that enables students to join instructors in a workbench approach to education. Often led by professional artists and curators, these classes vary by year and might include photography, choreography, murals or any other genre or form that puts us into the position of not just studying but practicing art.
Upper division courses continue to fill the parameters of how one understands arts and cultures through research methods that are both authoritative and collaborative. The upper division core requirements and electives also offer theoretical foundations in the study of specific media. Students will be required to take W102, an upper division “practice based” class, providing another chance to engage art-making. Throughout one’s time in our major, students will encounter a wide spectrum of approaches and cross-disciplinary approaches in their twenty-five elective units.
Students may propose to complete their degree with a "Senior Praxis" capstone project. These may take the form of performances, community service projects, formal talks, curated exhibits, spoken word, poetry, short films or other media types decided upon with faculty consultation during the required Junior Proposal course.
Students completing the World Arts and Cultures major will be able to:
demonstrate a variety of approaches to visual and performance-based art making, broadly conceived, in cross-cultural contexts.
collaboratively conduct and interpret field-based research with specific communities.
demonstrate a critical understanding of, and an ability to apply, a range of theories, methods and practices regarding cultural production and representation.
demonstrate awareness of and sensitivity to diversity and cultural differences, particularly as articulated with various forms of social organizations and movements, national and international policy, transnational art, curatorial practices, as well as museums and heritage sites.
produce well-informed analyses that supplement and affirm the relevance of diverse cultural productions.
develop informed interpretations not only of the way art functions within communities, but also how the links between art and community are created and represented.
articulate the value of civic engagement within a variety of social contexts.
What Can I Do with a BA in World Arts and Cultures?
Many of our students have relied on their WAC degree to further their artistic and professional pursuits.
Click HERE
to learn more!
WAC Major Curriculum 2023-2024
(217.42 kB)
Comprehensive information on the undergraduate curriculum for current students can be found in the
2023-2024 Undergraduate Handbook
(515.67 kB)
.
Details about individual courses can be found on the
UCLA Registrar's website
.
FOR CURRENT WAC STUDENTS:
Handbook: Please refer to the Handbook for your Admit year for your curriculum.
Undergraduate Degrees
B.A. in Dance
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures
Apply
Read about our admissions policies and procedures.
Learn more
B.A. in Dance
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top