JIFRESSE Outstanding Leadership/Service Award | Jifresse
Skip to main content
Joint Institute for Regional Earth System Science & Engineering
Search
JIFRESSE Outstanding Leadership/Service Award
Wednesday, November 8, 2023
The JIFRESSE Outstanding Leadership/Service Award will be given
to a current JIFRESSE member, especially early career members, in recognition of their outstanding contributions to making JIFRESSE a better place for collaboration in research, education, and applications of science/engineering for the benefit of society, and diversity/inclusion.  The award will
consist of a certificate, $1000 monetary award, an announcement at the JIFRESSE website, and recognition at the JIFRESSE annual open-house during the Award Presentation year.
Eligibility:
Nominees need to be current JIFRESSE members at the time of nomination, and within 10 years of receiving their PhD or highest degree.
Nomination Package:
Each nomination package should include the following:
A nomination letter stating how the nominee meets the selection criteria (not to exceed one page). The letter should clearly and concisely describe the nominee’s contribution to research, education, outreach, and diversity/inclusion for the benefit of society, especially through their volunteer and service activities.
Up to one optional support letter in addition to the nomination letter which should support the nominator’s argument, stating how the nominee meets the selection criteria (not to exceed one page).
Review Timeline and Process:
The nomination package must be submitted by January 10th, 2024 via email to Nancy Hom
nancy@jifresse.ucla.edu
.
Please label subject “Leadership/Service Award | name of Nominee.”
The review process will be completed by February 29
th
, 2024.
An Award Selection Committee will be appointed by the JIFRESSE Director to evaluate the nominations and consist of active JIFRESSE researchers as well as a member of the JIFRESSE leadership team.
The JIFRESSE Director will select Awardee based on the Award Committee Evaluation.
Conflict of Interest Policy (COI Policy)
Nominations can be submitted by any JIFRESSE affiliate members, including current or former supervisors, mentors, but not by family members and relatives, current or former mentees/students.
4242 Young Hall
Tel: 310.794.9832
Fax: 310.794.9796
© 2016 UC Regents | Terms of Use