UCLA Istvan Mody Lab - Istvan Mody, Ph.D.
Home
Publications
Lab Members
Research
Journal Club
About Us
Home
Lab Members
Istvan Mody, Ph.D.
Our research focuses on 1) the physiology, pharmacology, and pathology of synaptic transmission in the mammalian brain, and 2) the regulation of intracellular calcium homeostasis. The two themes ultimately converge in our quest for understanding how long-term alterations in the excitability of nerve cells and circuits are responsible for offsetting the frail balance between excitation and inhibition. Tipping this balance, either acutely of chronically, results in the nervous system showing signs of abnormal activity leading to specific brain disorders. We study synaptic transmission and the activation of extrasynaptic receptors in the healthy and the diseased brain. We presently carry out research in animal models of epilepsy, Huntington's disease, stress, alcoholism, PMS/PMDD, postpartum depression, while also recording from human brain tissue surgically removed for the treatment of epilepsies. By studying the fundamental mechanisms responsible for the altered synapses and circuits our studies will lead to novel therapies for a number of devastating neurological and psychiatric disorders. The experimental approaches we use include patch-clamp recordings (whole-cell, single channel and perforated patch) in brain slices, in acutely isolated animal and human neurons, or in cultured neurons/slices; chronic recordings in vivo to monitor long-term changes in the excitability of circuits; infrared and fluorescent video microscopy and simultaneous recordings in live brain tissue; various neuroanatomical and immunohistochemical techniques; measurement of intraneuronal calcium and the binding kinetics of calcium to various calcium-binding proteins; molecular biological approaches aimed at reducing or altering specific brain proteins as in genetic knockouts/knockins and various methods aimed at altering cellular protein levels.
Istvan Mody NIH Biosketch 2008
Istvan Mody, Ph.D.
Principal Investigator
Department of Neurology
UCLA School of Medicine
NRB 1, Room 575E
635 Charles Young Drive South
Los Angeles, CA 90095-733522
Office:     (310) 206-4481
Lab:     (310) 206-3485
FAX:     (310) 825-0033
This e-mail address is being protected from spam bots, you need JavaScript enabled to view it
Lab Members
Istvan Mody
Guido Faas
Albert M Barth
Scott Arno
Isabella Ferando
Ryan Jones
Main Lazaro
Maksim Gill
Laurel Ormiston
Mahsan Rafizadeh
Weizheng Wei
Katherine Chen
Matthew Kelley
Samantha Mohhamed
Previous Lab members
Contact Us
|
Site Map
Copyright © 2005-2008 - All Rights Reserved - UCLA Istvan Mody Lab