Health Equity and Translational Social Science | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Health Equity and Translational Social Science
(HETSS) Research Theme
Our Vision
To create Equity-Centered Patient Care models, in concert with research that centers social sciences, humanities, and community collaboration. Existing biomedical care systems do not address social determinants of health. In many cases, they construct structural barriers to health. HETSS exists to transform healthcare knowledge and practice.
Now is the time to shift to a sociomedical paradigm. Here's how we'll get there:
balance
CREATE KNOWLEDGE
Establish social sciences and humanities as essential to the study of health equity, and make equity a focus for all health research at UCLA, across the landscape.
group
CULTIVATE COLLABORATIONS
Build an engaged community of social scientists, humanities scholars, clinicians, and community partners to produce knowledge about the mechanisms of health equity.
construction
BUILD NEW MODELS
Develop evidence for Equity-Centered Patient Care Models, leveraging the social sciences and community lived experiences to address the social/structural determinants of health.
As a trauma surgeon, I know that homicide is the number one killer of young black boys and men. Structural racism is the root of the problem. We need to address the social determinants of health in our community by integrating social care into the fabric of our medical system.
Rochelle Dicker, MD
Full Calendar of Events related to Health Equity & Social Science Medicine
American medicine spends the most per capita of any nation but has the worst health outcomes in the industrialized world. We can change that by investing in sociomedical sciences.
Helena Hansen, MD, PhD
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login