Neuroscience Research | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
UCLA Neuroscience Research Theme
Support UCLA Neuroscience
Learn More
Neuroscience Researchers Are Developing Innovative Therapies To Treat Brain Diseases
UCLA is committed to a three-pronged approach to meet these demands. Devoting ourselves to healing humankind through outstanding patient care, fostering a cross-campus initiative for our neuroscience research community, and creating a unique environment dedicated to training great minds.
Patient Care
Healing humankind
UCLA Physicians are devoted to alleviating the pain and suffering of neurological and psychiatric disease by providing cutting edge treatments. They strive to create opportunities to engage with and improve the health of our neighbors.
Patient Care
Research
A cross-campus initiative
Neuroscience Research is dedicated to understanding the mysteries of how the brain develops and works, what goes wrong in brain diseases, and developing effective new therapies to treat diseases from brain tumors, depression and Alzheimer’s disease.
Research
Education
A unique environment
UCLA Faculty, both physicians and researchers, are passionate about training the next generation of neuroscientists including undergraduate, graduate and medical students, as well as residents, postdoctoral and clinical fellows.
Education
As a medical student, before you treat heart disease you learn about how the heart works. Before you treat kidney disease, you learn how the kidney works. The best therapies are based on an understanding of the biology of the system and the pathophysiology of the disease.
Simply put, if we are to manage and cure neuropsychiatric disease, we must learn
how the brain works
. Kelsey Martin, MD, PhD, a learning and memory researcher, has said.
Learn More
A Complex Mystery
With perhaps tens of thousands of different types of brain cells, nearly 100 billion of them, and a 100 trillion connections between them, the human brain remains an extraordinary mystery. Remarkable progress in molecular biology, genetics, imaging technologies, and data analysis provides the neuroscience research team with exceptional tools to dig deeply into understanding how our brains work and what goes wrong when our brains do not function properly.
Understand, Then Cure.
Let’s dedicate ourselves to the type of fiercely open-minded scholarly inquiry that promises to uncover the causes of human disease. Learn more about what neuroscience research is being done, and the resources that can be found on campus, by disease.
Amyotrophic Lateral Sclerosis (ALS)
Alzheimer's Disease (AD)
Brain Cancers
Cerebrovascular Accident (Stroke)
Depression Diseases
Epilepsy (Seizure Disorder)
Huntington's Disease (HD)
Multiple Sclerosis (MS)
Parkinson's Disease (PD)
Don't see what you are looking for?
Try a filtered search.
Explore Our Collaborative Institutes, Centers And Departments
UCLA Brain Research Institute
UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior
UCLA College of Life Sciences
UCLA School of Engineering
UCLA College of Physical Sciences
Department of Physiology
Department of Psychiatry
Department of Psychology
Department of Neurobiology
Department of Neurosurgery
Department of Neurology
Clinical Departments
UCLA Brain Research Institute
Get directions
UCLA Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior
Get directions
UCLA School of Engineering
Get directions
UCLA College of Life Sciences
Get directions
UCLA College of Physical Sciences
Get directions
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login