Metabolism | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
UCLA Metabolism Research Theme
Learn & Discover
Why don't we have a cure for diabetes?
Orian Shirihai, MD, PhD describes how teamwork is the foundation of progress in the field of metabolism at UCLA. Learn more about the research efforts in this area for the UCLA Metabolism Research Theme.
Learn More
Metabolism and Mitochondria
Every biological process requires energy. Mitochondria, the parts of a cell that break down energy, have breathtaking vitality. These dynamic bodies – up to 1,000 in each cell – zoom around, continuously changing shape, dividing into segments, and then bonding back together. Trillions of
mitochondria
perform their dances, nonstop, during a person’s lifetime. The need to understand this dance, and the other intricacies of human metabolism, is critical to better medical treatment.
Research
A cross campus initiative
UCLA Metabolism Theme investigators and physicians have ideas and evidence about how metabolic processes can be reset in some disorders, potentially creating pathways for improved treatments and possible cures.
Learn More
Training
A unique environment
To best fuel ideas and support new approaches to metabolic parameters, we partner with internal and external entities to bring in talent, provide educational seminar series and facilitate workshops.
Learn More
Support
UCLA’s Metabolism Research Theme aims to translate basic science discoveries to patient care in several areas, including the control of body weight, the link between metabolism and cancer, and gender differences in susceptibility to metabolic diseases. To catalyze these efforts, we are establishing the UCLA Institute for Molecular Metabolism, to be housed in the newly renovated UCLA Center for Health Sciences.
We seek your partnership in the effort to help the millions of individuals struggling with diabetes, obesity, and other metabolic disorders. Join the cause.
Investments of all sizes empower transformations.
Support science
Metabolism News
Metabolism-focused startup aims to shorten time between scientific insight and therapies
Stem cells offer hope for hair growth
First description of mEAK-7 gene could suggest path toward therapies for cancer, other diseases
Scientists identify 2 hormones that burn fat faster, prevent and reverse diabetes in mice
Inhibiting metabolism found to be effective in treating aggressive form of lung cancer
More News
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login