Key Management | MATSERV
Select Page
Search for:
X
Key Management
Contact:
logistics@seas.ucla.edu
Hours of Operation:  7:30am – 4:30pm (closed 12:00pm – 1:00pm)
Key Order Procedures and Guidelines
Research personnel requesting a key to any laboratory within HSSEAS
must
complete a
key request form
.  It is the responsibility of the department to ensure that this form is in the new hire packet and is completed.  The PI’s signature on this form is verification that the new hire has successfully completed the Laboratory Safety Orientation course and received training on personal protective equipment (PPE).
The Logistics and Materiel Management office is responsible for keeping an up-to-date and accurate record of all the keys (individual keys, masters, and sub-masters) in all buildings for the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science.
All key orders (i.e. new locks, changing keys, etc.) must be cleared through this office prior to processing through the Facilities Management Key Shop. This procedure has been communicated and will be followed by the Facilities Key Shop. Please copy all
FSR
‘s for any key orders to
logistics@seas.ucla.edu
or they will not be processed.
All key orders should include building master and any relevant sub-masters. Requests that do not include building master must have prior authorization by this office, the fire marshal, and Associate Dean for Research and Physical Resources of the School.
All proximity card readers and other electronic entry installments must have door knobs or door handles that can accept Medeco cores. These new locks should allow for the building master access and any relevant sub-master as well.
All this is for your safety and security, as well as access by the fire marshal, police, emergency workers and Facilities Management workers that may need to enter your areas after hours or during holidays and weekends.
We appreciate your cooperation to maintain an accurate and up-to-date physical inventory of all necessary keys for HSSEAS buildings.
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA