Application - Email - Staff Signature
Log In
Email
Staff Signatures
Instructions to Set up Signatures
Signature Templates
Your email signature is like a digital business card – it provides contact information and visually connects you with the University.
Instructions to Set up Signatures
In Windows Outlook 2007 and 2010:
Open a new message.
On the Message tab, in the Include group, click Signature, and then click Signatures.
On the E-mail Signature tab, click New.
Type a name for the signature, click OK.
In the Edit signature box, paste (Control+V) the signature you copied below.
Update the text with your information.
In the Edit signature box, select the signature text, then select Helvetica 9pt or Arial 9pt* (Helvetica LT is not the correct font)
In Mac Outlook 2011:
Go to the Outlook menu and select Preferences.
Select Signatures.
Click the plus icon (+) to add a new signature.
Double click the “Untitled” signature and rename it.
Copy and paste signature templates (see section below) into the Signature box.
In the Edit signature box, select the signature text, then select Helvetica 12pt or Arial 12pt* (Helvetica LT is *not* the correct font)
* If the signature looks too small or too large, please feel free to make minor size adjustments (0.5pt size adjustment may often be all you need).
Signature Templates
The standard email signature should be used for all general correspondence, with the exceptions of the Chancellor’s executive communications and communications relating to specific initiatives. Copy and paste the templates below to set up your signature.
Standard Signature if You Are the Original Sender
Joe Bruin
Chief Happiness Officer
UCLA Strategic Communications | Marketing
10920 Wilshire Blvd. Suite 1000
Los Angeles, CA 90024
Office (310) 825-4321
Mobile (310) 123-4567
yourdepartment.ucla.edu
yourpromotion.ucla.edu
List one or two websites of your choice, like chancellor.ucla.edu or newsroom.ucla.edu, or a UCLA site you are promoting, like 100.ucla.edu.
It is optional to include UCLA logo at the bottom of your signature. Depending on email programs, platforms and user configurations, the logo graphic may not be visible to your email recipient and may appear as an attachment. If you choose to include it, make sure to use the “boxed” version of the Campus Logo or Department Logo only.
Standard Signature If You Are Replying or Forwarding
Joe Bruin
Chief Happiness Officer
UCLA Strategic Communications | Marketing
Office (310) 825-4321
Initiatives Signature if You Are the Original Sender
To support specific initiatives like the
Centennial Campaign
for UCLA and the
Centennial Celebration
, email signatures may incorporate logos and marks of the initiatives in place of the UCLA Campus Logo. To download the graphics to insert into your signature, please visit the Centennial Campaign and Centennial Celebration Initiatives sections.
Example of email initiatives signatures
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility