Application - Email - Templates
Log In
Email
Templates
Event Standard
Event Lite
Announcement
Newsletter Standard
Newsletter Lite
Other Graphics
BruinPost
Whether you’re sending an event invite, newsletter or one-time announcement, UCLA has pre-made templates optimized for current content and design best practices. For detailed instructions on how to use each template, refer to the User Guide PDF included with each template download.
Event Standard
The event standard template works for a variety of event marketing communications: invitations, reminders, surveys and thank-you emails. It contains basic building blocks (header, title, copy) as well as additional, optional content blocks (hero image, speakers, add-to-calendars, sponsors and related info). Use or remove any sections marked “optional” to suit your needs.
Included in your download:
Five Event Standard HTML templates
User guide
Download Event Standard Templates (ZIP 4 MB)
Event Lite
Use this simple event template to create save-the-date and invitation emails that require minimal copy, including lectures, panels, discussions and performances.
Included in your download:
Two Event Lite HTML templates
User guide
Download Event Lite Templates (ZIP 1 MB)
Announcement
The announcement template works for general, non-event, non-periodical communications such as letters, announcements, reports, donor communications and calls for volunteers.
Included in your download:
Three Announcement HTML templates
User guide
Download Announcement Templates (ZIP 2 MB)
Newsletter Standard
Designed for monthly and quarterly newsletters, this template is a stack of content blocks including top story, features stories, short copy and long copy.
Included in your download:
Four Newsletter Standard HTML templates
User guide
Download Newsletter Standard Templates (ZIP 3 MB)
Newsletter Lite
The newsletter lite is a simpler stack of non-hierarchical content blocks, designed to accommodate emails with one or two types of content.
Included in your download:
Three Newsletter Lite HTML templates
User guide
Download Newsletter Lite Templates (ZIP 2 MB)
Other Graphics
For announcements and events where campus units display other graphics in addition to a
department logo
, follow the examples in these templates.
Included in your download:
Other graphics in Announcement HTML template
Other graphics in Event HTML template
Other graphics in Newsletter HTML template
Download Templates with Other Graphics (ZIP 2 MB)
Bruin Post
UCLA's official internal mass email service, BruinPost, is one of the primary ways in which UCLA leaders communicate with audiences across campus.
Approved BruinPost message types include the following per
UCLA Policy 316: BruinPost Messaging Service
:
University and campus administrative and academic policy matters
Senior administrative and executive announcements
Compensation, benefits and other employment-related subjects
Campus accounting, purchasing and administrative systems procedures
Academic program announcements, nominations and appointments
Safety and security issues
Approved messages to the student body
View approved templates that will be used by the BruinPost Administrator to create your message. The standard header (at left) is most often used for routine campus matters like policy updates and the vibrant header is used for newsletters, special announcements or other occasions:
Approved headers for vice chancellors, vice provosts, UCLA College, professional schools (PDF)
Approved headers for all other campus units (PDF)
Newsletter template option A
- use this document to add your content and submit via the
BruinPost order form
Newsletter template option B
- use this document to add your content and submit via the
BruinPost order form
For more information and to request service, visit the
BruinPost website
.
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility