Academic Forms | MSE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Academic Forms
Academic Forms
Application for MSE Teaching Assistantships (TA)
All TA applications should be electronically filled out. The MSE Graduate Advisor will email an online application to the MSE Graduate Student Listserv three times a year.
To ensure that your application is taken into consideration, please submit your application on or before the appropriate deadline.
TA Fall Application
(Deadline: August 1)
TA Winter Application
(Deadline: November 1)
TA Spring Application
(Deadline: February 1)
General Forms and Petitions
Enrollment Petition
Change of Advisor
Leave of Absence
– Due: Fall/Oct 1, Winter/January 1, Spring/April 1
Thesis and Dissertation Formatting and Filing Guide
Petition to change in Final Oral examination requirement
In Absentia Registration Petition
– Due: Fall/Sept. 1, Winter/Dec. 1, Spring/March 1
Graduate Petition for Change of Program or Home Major (M.S./Ph.D.)
Change Master Degree Plan Petition
Petition for Residence Classification
– For CONTINUING Domestic Graduate Students – Form is Due 20 Days before the Fall quarter begins
Withdrawal Notice
Statement of Legal Residence
Master of Science (M.S.) Forms
Program of Study for M.S. Degree
M.S. Advancement to Candidacy
Master Capstone Nomination of Reviewers
Master Thesis Nomination of the Committee
Reconstitution of the Master Thesis committee
Filing M.S. Degree Fee
Guidelines for “Capstone Project”
MS Thesis and Dissertation Formatting and Filing Guide
Petition for Conditional Approval to take Prelims –
Due: Fall/ Nov. 1st, Winter/ Feb. 1st, Spring/ May 1st
Doctor of Philosophy (Ph.D.) Forms
Proposal of Fields of Study for Ph.D. Degree
Ph.D Nomination of Doctoral Committee
Guidelines for Ph.D Nomination of Doctoral Committee
Schedule for Ph.D. Oral Qualifying Examination
Guidelines for Ph.D Oral Qualifying Examination
Schedule for Ph.D. Final Oral Examination
Reconstitution of the Ph.D of the Doctoral Committee
Filing Ph.D Degree Fee
PHD Thesis and Dissertation Formatting and Filing Guide
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA