Department Announcements | MSE
Select Page
Search for:
X
UCLA Engineering Welcomes Two New Faculty Members
UCLA Samueli Newsroom Courtesy of Balandin, Schwalbe-Koda Alexander Balandin (left) and Daniel Schwalbe-Koda (right) will join the UCLA Samueli faculty in July 2023 and March 2024, respectively. The...
Read More
Aaswath Raman Receives Early Career Award for Materials Science Innovations
May 30, 2023
UCLA Samueli Newsroom The Materials Research Society has chosen Aaswath Raman, an assistant professor of materials science and engineering at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, as the recipient of its 2022 Kavli Foundation Early Career Lectureship in Materials...
UCLA Engineering Professor Qibing Pei Receives SPIE Lifetime Achievement Award
Apr 11, 2023
UCLA Samueli Newsroom The international society of optics and photonics, SPIE, has selected Qibing Pei, a professor of materials science and engineering at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, as the recipient of its 2023 Smart Structures and Materials Lifetime...
J&J WiSTEM2D Scholars Award Winner Ximin He
Apr 11, 2023
UCLA Samueli   [Dr.] He’s proposal aims to design and develop an unconventional additive micro-manufacturing system that can 3D-print a broad range of materials from polymers to metals on a single platform, at record-setting high resolution. - Rosa Oppenheim, J&J...
Nanomaterials Scientist Yu Huang Appointed Traugott and Dorothea Frederking Endowed Chair
Mar 13, 2023
UCLA Samueli   UCLA Samueli Newsroom  The UCLA Samueli School of Engineering has named Yu Huang, a professor and chair of the Materials Science and Engineering Department, as the inaugural holder of the Traugott and Dorothea Frederking Endowed Chair, effective...
It Takes a Village: Bruin Engineer Shares Hopeful Vision for Diversity in STEM
Mar 13, 2023
Courtesy of Krystal Cunningham
Aaswath Raman Named Senior Member of National Academy of Inventors
Feb 16, 2022
UCLA Samueli Newsroom Aaswath Raman, an assistant professor of materials science and engineering at UCLA, has been elected as a 2022 senior member of the National Academy of Inventors. The honor recognizes inventors at academic institutions with a track record of...
2020 Outstanding Materials Science Ph.D., M.S., and B.S. Students
May 28, 2020
We congratulate the outstanding MSE students for their achievements this academic year.
In Memoriam: Edward K. Rice, 94, Leader in Concrete and Building Technologies
May 15, 2020
Edward K. Rice, an innovator in concrete and building technologies who led major civil engineering firms and was an ardent supporter of the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, passed away on May 8, 2020, in his Los Angeles home.
MSE undergraduate student awarded the ASM International Scholarship
Apr 29, 2020
UCLA Materials Science and Engineering undergraduate student Grant Hushek has been awarded the American Society for Metals (ASM) International Los Angeles Chapter Scholarship.
« Older Entries
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA