Newsroom | MSE
Select Page
Search for:
X
The World’s Largest 3D-Printed Neighborhood Is Here
Photographer: Jordan Vonderhaar for Bloomberg Green   By Todd Woody   If it can scale, the 3D-printing process promises to deliver energy-efficient and climate-resilient homes that can be...
Read More
UCLA Engineers Design Solar Roofs to Harvest Energy for Greenhouses
Mar 13, 2023
Yang Yang Laboratory/UCLA A miniature greenhouse prototype with its roof built of semi-transparent solar cells invented by UCLA materials scientists that resulted in better plant growth than a traditional greenhouse   Advance can simultaneously benefit...
UCLA Team Develops Ultrathin Films for Stretchable and Sturdy Bioelectronic Membranes
Mar 2, 2022
The layered patchwork design of van der Waals thin films enables the membrane to stretch and flex over irregular geometries. (Yan et al./UCLA)   The highly adaptable materials could lead to new classes of wearable devices, diagnostic sensors and...
Sweating the small stuff: Smartwatch developed at UCLA measures key stress hormone
Feb 17, 2022
Image Courtesy of Yichao Zhao and Zhaoqing Wang/UCLA Cortisol is well-suited for measurement through wearable devices, according to study co-author Sam Emaminejad, because its concentration levels in sweat are similar to its circulating levels. The human body responds...
UCLA Team Harnesses Machine Learning Imaging Technology for Materials Design
Jan 18, 2022
Materials scientists at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering have developed a new way to optimize the design of complex optical materials by using the same machine-learning technique that creates deceptive imagery known as “deepfakes.”
3D Printed Carbon Tube-in-Tube Structures Garnered the Cover of Nature Materials
Nov 12, 2021
A group of materials scientists, chemists, and modelers from Lawrence Livermore National Laboratory, University of Groningen (Netherland), and UCLA (Prof. Morris Wang) have created a new class of ultralight and stiff carbon tube-in-tube structures via a 3D printing technique called direct laser writing – two photon polymerization (DLW-TPP).
Materials Scientist Receives DARPA Young Faculty Award to Advance Cooling Technologies
Sep 17, 2021
Aaswath Raman, a UCLA assistant professor of materials science and engineering, has received a 2021 Young Faculty Award from the Defense Advanced Research Projects Agency (DARPA) of the U.S. Department of Defense.
UCLA-led Team Develops Ways to Keep Buildings Cool with Improved Super White Paints
Jul 15, 2020
A research team led by UCLA materials scientists has demonstrated ways to make super white paint that reflects as much as 98% of incoming heat from the sun.
A step toward a more efficient way to make gene therapies to attack cancer, genetic disorders
Apr 29, 2020
A UCLA-led research team today reports that it has developed a new method for delivering DNA into stem cells and immune cells safely, rapidly and economically.
UCLA Web App Enlists Public Support to Mitigate Spread of COVID-19
Apr 15, 2020
UCLA has launched Stop COVID-19 Together to help fight the spread of COVID-19. The public is encouraged to take the confidential survey so necessary data can be collected to help stop the pandemic.
« Older Entries
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA