Research Areas | MSE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Research Areas
Faculty Areas of Research and Thesis Guidance
Professors
Alexander A. Balandin
, Ph.D. (Notre Dame, 1997)
Nanofabrication, quantum materials, electronic devices, Raman and Brillouin-Mandelstam spectroscopy, electronic noise spectroscopy, phonon engineering and thermal management, multi-functional composites.
Russel E. Caflisch
, Ph.D. (Courant Institute, 1978)
Theory and numerical simulation for materials physics, epitaxial growth, nanoscale systems, semiconductor device properties and design in application to quantum well devices, quantum dots, nanocrystals and quantum computing.
Greg Carman
, Ph.D. (Virginia Tech, 1991)
Nanoscale Multiferroic materials, piezoelectric materials, magnetostrictive materials, thin film shape memory alloys, fiber optic sensors.
Jane P. Chang
, Ph.D. (MIT, 1998)
Synthesis and chemical processing of novel materials, atomistic understanding of solid state interfaces, and their applications in microelectronics, optoelectronics, solar cells, batteries, and other energy related applications.
Yong Chen
, Ph.D. (UC Berkeley, 1996)
Nanofabrication, nanoscale electronic materials and devices, micro-nano electronic/optical/bio/ mechanical systems.
Bruce S. Dunn
, Ph.D. (UCLA, 1974)
Solid electrolytes, electrical properties of ceramics and glasses, ceramic-metal bonding, optical materials.
Nasr M. Ghoniem
, Ph.D. (Wisconsin, 1977)
Mechanical behavior of high-temperature materials, radiation interaction with material, material processing by plasma and beam sources, physics and mechanics of material defects, fusion energy.
Mark S. Goorsky
, Ph.D. (MIT, 1989)
Electronic materials processing, strain relaxation in epitaxial semiconductors and device structures, high-resolution X-ray diffraction of semiconductors, ceramics, and high-strength alloys.
Vijay Gupta
, Ph.D. (MIT 1990)
Experimental mechanics, fracture of engineering solids, mechanics of thin films and interfaces, failure mechanisms and characterization of composite materials, ice mechanics and biomedical engineering.
Robert F. Hicks
, Ph.D. (UC Berkeley, 1984)
Surface chemistry and engineering of semiconductor manufacturing processes.
Yu Huang
, Ph.D. (Harvard University, 2003)
Interface of functional nanosystems and biosystems, synthesis and assembly of nanoscale materials through chemical and biological approaches, design of novel nanodevice concepts.
Subramanin S. Iyer
, Ph.D. (UCLA, 1981)
System Scaling Technology, advanced packaging and 3D integration, technologies and techniques for the memory subsystem integration and neuromorphic computing.
Ioanna Kakoulli
, Ph.D. (University of Oxford, 1999)
Technology of manufacture of ancient pigments and the study of artifacts using non-invasive methods of examination and analysis exploring the potentials of spectral imaging technologies.
Richard B. Kaner
, Ph.D. (Pennsylvania, 1984)
Rapid synthesis of high-temperature materials, conducting polymers as separation membranes for enantiomers, synthesis of carbon nanoscrolls and composites.
Suneel Kodambaka
, Ph.D. (Univ. Illinois, 2002)
In situ microscopy, nanowire & nanocluster growth mechanisms, surface thermodynamics, thin film physics, and kinetics of phase transformations & chemical reactions.
Xiaochun Li
, Ph.D. (Stanford, 2001)
Scifacturing (science-driven manufacturing as the next level of manufacturing), interdisciplinary areas of innovative manufacturing and materials processing, Solid Freeform Fabrication (Additive Manufacturing), nanoscience and nanotechnology, laser micro/nano materials processing, and process/system integration.
Jamie Marian
, Ph.D. (Polytechnic University of Madrid, 1997)
Understanding materials evolution under extreme conditions using multiscale computational modeling
.
Ali Mosleh
, Ph.D. (UCLA, 1981)
Reliability engineering, physics of failure modeling and system life prediction, resilient systems design, prognostics and health monitoring, hybrid systems simulation, theories and techniques for risk and safety analysis
Qibing Pei
, Ph.D. (Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, 1990)
Electronic polymers; Organic electronic devices; Electroactive polymer artificial muscles; Electromechanical devices; Polymer synthesis; Nano-structured polymer and hybrid materials.
Dwight S. Streit
, Ph.D. (UCLA, 1986)
Solid state materials and electronics, including electronic and optical materials, semiconductor fabrication and characterization, electrical and optical device design and modeling, device and circuit processing, microwave and millimeter-wave circuits, high-speed digital and mixed-signal circuits, advanced packaging, radar and communication systems
Sara Tolbert
, Ph.D. (UC Berkeley, 1995)
Self-organized nanoscale materials, including both organic templated inorganic phases, and colloidal materials
King-Ning Tu
, Ph.D. (Harvard, 1968)
Kinetic processes in thin films, metal-silicon interfaces, electromigration, Pb-free interconnects.
Kang L. Wang
, Ph.D. (MIT, 1970)
Nanoelectronics, spintronics and nanomagnetics, non-volatile electronics and low dissipation devices, quantum device and systems, frontier materials by molecular beam epitaxy, photonics and energy.
Yinmin Morris Wang
, Ph.D. (JHU, 2003)
Mechanical behavior of nanostructured metals and additively manufactured materials, laser-materials interactions, materials under extreme conditions, fusion science and technology, lithium-ion batteries and supercapacitors.
Paul Weiss
, Ph.D. (UC Berkeley, 1986)
Atomic-scale chemical, physical, optical, mechanical and electronic properties of surfaces and supramolecular assemblies.
Benjamin M. Wu
, DDS (University of Pacific, 1987), Ph.D. (MIT, 1998)
Processing, characterization ans controlled delivery of biological molecules of bioerodible polymers, design and fabrication of tissue engineering scaffolds and precursors tissue analogs, tissue-material interactions and dental biomaterials.
Ya-Hong Xie
, Ph.D. (UCLA, 1986)
Cross-talk isolation in Si RF-digital mixed signal integrated circuits, SiGe, heteroepitaxial structures, self-assembled quantum dot arrays and other Si-based novel device structures.
Jenn-Ming Yang
, Ph.D. (Delaware, 1986)
Mechanical behavior of polymer, metal, and ceramic matrix composites, electronics packaging.
Yang Yang
, Ph.D. (Massachusetts-Lowell, 1992)
Conjugated polymers and applications in optoelectronic devices such as light-emitting diodes, photodiodes and field-effect transistors.
Professors Emeriti
Alan J. Ardell
, Ph.D. (Stanford, 1964)
Irradiation-induced precipitation, high-temperature deformation of solids, electron microscopy, physical metallurgy of aluminum/lithium alloys, precipitation hardening.
David L. Douglass
, Ph.D. (Ohio State, 1958)
Oxidation and sulfidation kinetics and mechanisms, materials compatibility, defect structures, diffusion.
John D. Mackenzie
, Ph.D. (lmperial C., London, 1954)
Glass science, ceramics, electrical properties of amorphous materials, materials recycling.
Kanji Ono
, Ph.D. (Northwestern U., 1964)
Mechanical behavior and nondestructive testing of structural materials, acoustic emission, dislocations and strengthening mechanisms, microstructural effects and ultrasonics.
Aly H. Shabaik
, Ph.D. (UC Berkeley, 1966)
Metal forming, metal cutting, mechanical properties, friction and wear, biomaterials, manufacturing processes.
Associate Adjunct Professors
Eric P. Bescher
, Ph.D. (UCLA, 1997)
Advanced cementitious materials, sol-gel materials, organic/inorganic hybrids.
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA