Undergraduate Admissions | MSE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Undergraduate Admissions
Admissions
Special Requirements for Chemistry/Materials Science Option
Offered to students enrolled in the Department of Chemistry and Biochemistry (College of Letters and Science). Contact
Prof. Yu Huang
or
Judy Rayos
for details.
Program Educational Objectives
The Materials Science and Engineering Program at UCLA prepares undergraduate students for employment or advanced studies with industry, national laboratories, state and federal agencies, as well as academia. To meet the needs of these constituencies, the objectives of the Materials Science and Engineering Undergraduate Program are to produce graduates who:
Exhibit proficiency in fundamental mathematics, science, and engineering to attain success in a professional career.
Succeed in graduate education in Materials Science and Engineering or related fields.
Function and communicate effectively in multidisciplinary teams.
Engage in lifetime learning and demonstrate professional responsibility.
Student Outcomes
The ability to apply knowledge of mathematics, science, and engineering.
The ability to design and conduct experiments, as well as to analyze and interpret data.
The ability to design a system, component, or process to meet desired needs within realistic constraints such as economic, environmental, social, political, ethical, health and safety, manufacturability, and sustainability.
The ability to function on multidisciplinary teams.
The ability to identify, formulate, and solve engineering problems.
An understanding of professional and ethical responsibility.
The ability to communicate effectively.
A broad education necessary to understand the impact of engineering solutions in a global, economic, environmental, and societal context.
A recognition of the need for, and an ability to engage in life-long learning.
Knowledge of contemporary issues.
The ability to use the techniques, skills, and modern engineering tools necessary for engineering practice.
Annual student enrollment and graduation data is available in the annual UCEE reports available at
http://www.seasoasa.ucla.edu/admissions/enrollment-degree-statistics-new
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA