Brand Guidelines | Application | Print
Log In
Print
How to Use Templates
Stationery
Save the Date
Invitation
Flyer
Newsletter
Other Graphics
We define “print” as any communication or marketing material that is not typically distributed through digital channels.
How to Use Templates
Print templates are designed to help you use UCLA’s brand elements such as the logo, color palette and special fonts seamlessly in your work.
Formal templates
serve for occasions when a dean or other
						VIP is involved.
Informal templates
work for all other cases. They can be altered somewhat to accommodate your specific needs.
Word files
are included in download bundles as an alternative to InDesign files where appropriate.
While the amount of copy on a newsletter or invitation may vary, and the number of logos for department or unit sponsors at the bottom of a flyer can change, remember to avoid changing
						the size and color of a logo. Visit the relevant sections of this site for more information on
logos
,
colors
,
copy
and
imagery
.
Note: Any materials involving Chancellor Block, Mrs. Block and/or Executive Vice Chancellor and Provost Carter must be approved through the Special Events and Protocol division of UCLA Strategic Communications.
						Allow seven days for the approval process.
Continue to the Protocol Guide for Chancellor Event Marketing Materials.
Stationery
Print from approved vendors
Faculty, staff, and Ph.D. candidates can choose from approved UCLA business cards, envelopes and letterhead templates available via our approved vendors below. More vendors coming soon.
UCLA Mail, Document & Distribution Services
Castle Press
Typecraft
If you don’t see your unit logo on the order form, please
contact us.
UCLA Health and David Geffen School of Medicine departments, please
order your business cards and stationery here.
Desktop printing and electronic use
UCLA letterhead and envelope templates can be downloaded for electronic use and desktop printing.
Included in your download:
Letterhead in Word file
Envelope in Word file
Instructions for both Mac and PC
Download Stationery (ZIP 522 KB)
Save the Date
Choose from formal and informal save-the-date templates, available in both InDesign and Word files.
Note:
You will need to use 5x7 paper in order to print the save-the-date card in Word.
If you need email save-the-dates,
see email event templates.
Included in your download:
Two formal save-the-date cards
One formal envelope
Four informal save-the-date cards
Three informal envelopes
Download Save-the-Date (ZIP 16 MB)
Invitation
Choose from a variety of templates for event invitations. If you're looking for email invitations, see the
email event templates
section.
Included in your download:
Six formal invitation cards
Two formal envelopes
Two formal reply cards
Four informal invitation cards and envelopes
Download Invitation (ZIP 14 MB)
Flyer
These 12 flyer designs give you greater flexibility to communicate about upcoming events and new programs or initiatives.
If you're looking for email flyers, see the
email event templates
section.
Included in your download:
12 flyers in InDesign, Word, and JPG files
Download Flyer (ZIP 19 MB)
Newsletter
Update stakeholders on major developments in your department using any of these three newsletter options.
If you need email newsletters,
check out email newsletter templates.
Included in your download:
Three newsletters in InDesign, Word, and JPG files
Download Newsletter (ZIP 18 MB)
Other Graphics
When using other graphics in addition to
department logos
, follow the examples in the templates below.
Included in your download:
Other graphics in flyer
Other graphics in letterhead
Other graphics in Newsletter
Download Templates with Other Graphics (ZIP 6 MB)
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility