Brand Guidelines | Application | Social Media
Log In
Social Media
Should I Start a New Channel?
Profile Image
Cover Photo
Post Templates
Copy
Photos and Videos
Code of Conduct
Crisis Communications
UCLA encourages the use of official social media accounts to tell the university’s stories and participate in conversations around relevant topics. Social media is an important platform for UCLA; when we present a consistent voice and brand aesthetic, we can represent ourselves more effectively. This guide outlines some basics on how to manage social media on behalf of the university. For additional support and guidance, visit
socialmedia.ucla.edu
Should I Start a New Channel?
Before launching a new social channel, it’s important to define your goals and determine if and how social media will help reach them. Ask yourself the following questions:
How can social media help my department or organization meet our goals?
Who is our audience, and is social media the appropriate channel to reach them?
Do we have the resources for effective content development, execution and moderation on a daily basis?
Have social media platforms for your school already been established, and can these existing platforms promote your event or content?
Profile Image
Many people use social media on mobile devices, so keep in mind that your icon will almost always display very small. Official school and department accounts should use their social media profile identity for
					all square and circular profile photos/icons for readability and consistent branding.
Example of social media profile identity.
To obtain your department or unit’s social media profile identity, contact your unit/department’s Marketing & Communication Director.
Cover Photo
Cover photos, header images, channel art, etc. create a first impression, so choose images that are relevant to your unit/department and your audience. Follow the image specs for each individual platform,
					and make sure your image is of sufficient resolution. Avoid using text, as it will be cut off on certain screen sizes and devices.
Post Templates
We’ve created social media post templates to help save time and align our brand look and feel. These are designed to Facebook and Twitter specifications for events, contest, and various image/text
					combinations. Access the .PSD files via the download button below to get started; if you use a different design program or tool, please refer back to the
Graphic Elements
section of Brand Guidelines to download graphic elements to use in your posts.
Download Social Media Templates (ZIP 11 MB)
Copy
Before writing and posting copy on social media, make sure to review the
Copy and Editorial
as well as
Fundamentals
sections of Brand Guidelines.
UCLA’s brand
voice
remains the same in all contexts. However,
tone
can change and flex depending on audience, and this is especially true on social media.
This diagram illustrates how our tone can shift depending on audience.
Photos and Videos
Before posting photos on official university social media channels, make sure to review the
Imagery section of brand guidelines
. We also recommend reviewing the best
					practices and specs outlined by each social media platform’s own guidelines, keeping in mind requirements for both resolution and dimension.
Before posting videos, make sure to review
UCLA’s brand guidelines for video
. This section includes video best practices, guidelines for how to use captions, supers and other visual elements, and downloadable assets for you to use.
Code of Conduct
UCLA’s social media channels are an integral of the university brand and they call for a different approach than personal accounts. When you represent the university on social media platforms, it
					is important to adhere to UCLA’s values and follow
UCLA’s principles of community
,
UC diversity statement
,
UC statement of ethical values and standards of ethical conduct
and all other applicable
					policies.
Crisis Communications
In the case of an emergency that impacts or involves the campus community, hold off on posting and defer to the
Bruins Safe Online
for communication
					updates, reference materials, and instructions. You can follow
UCLA BruinAlert Twitter
here.
DO NOT POST
any crisis-related communications outside of official messages from the UCLA Office of Emergency Management.
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility