Campus Safety | Transportation
Skip to Main Content
Transportation
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Campus Safety
Emergencies
Dial 911 for immediate help or to report a crime anytime, day or night.
Hospital Emergency Room: (310) 82
5-2111
Safety is a key priority at UCLA. UCLA Transportation coordinates efforts with the UCLA Police Department to provide programs, materials and services focused on safety. This page provides information and links relating to those programs.
You can do your part by becoming aware and by always following safe practices. Keeping yourself safe and your belongings secure does not take a lot of time or effort. Simply learn some basics, be aware of your surroundings and change the behaviors that could mark you as an easy target for crime.
Nighttime Safety & Mobility
Campus Escort Service
The UCLA Police Department provides a free walking escort service every day of the year from dusk until 1 a.m. They are available to walk students, faculty, staff members and visitors to and from anywhere on campus, in Westwood Village, and in the village apartments. CSO Safety Escorts are uniformed students who have received special training and are employed by the UCLA Police Department. To obtain an escort, please call (310) 794-9255. Please allow 15 to 20 minutes for your escort to arrive.
UCLA SafeRide
UCLA SafeRide is a complimentary service that provides safe, reliable, evening transportation between campus buildings, on-campus housing, and nearby residential areas. The service is available during Fall, Winter, and Spring Quarters with vans and buses that are ADA compliant and disinfected daily. On-demand rides can be booked using the TripShot app.
Learn more about UCLA SafeRide.
UCLA Police Department
Contact the UCLA Police Department to report a crime or other incident on campus, or to receive immediate help.  You can contact the UCLA Police Department, 24 hours a day, 7 days a week at (310) 82
5-1491.
This office also has information about
reporting "hate crimes".
Interested in getting the latest crime bulletin updates? Join the
Campus Safety Listserv
.
Related Links
BruinAlert
CSO Evening Escorts
UCLA SafeRide
Safety While Walking
Emergency 911 Quik Link System
Motorcycle & Scooter Safety Tips
Campus Traffic Evacuation
UCLA Police Department
Crime Alert Bulletins
Customer Service Phone Hours:
(310) 794-7433 |
transportation@ts.ucla.edu
Monday - Friday (except university holidays)
8:30 a.m. - 5:00 p.m.
ASK TRANSPORTATION
|
CONTACT US
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use