Clubs, Organizations and Recreation |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Clubs, Organizations and Recreation
Something extraordinary for everyone.
UCLA is a mosaic of culture and activity. With more than 1,200 clubs and student organizations, you’ll find ample opportunities to discover new interests and make friends with like-minded Bruins.
Search Clubs & Organizations
Sports and Recreation
Whether it’s for competition or simply for fun, students are active in just about every imaginable sport or recreational activity. With 15 multipurpose workout facilities and six pools spread throughout campus,
UCLA Recreation
sponsors instructional classes, an intramural sports program that consists of 30 leagues, tournaments, meets and special events, and 50 club sports. The UCLA Marina Aquatic Center, located in Marina Del Rey, offers instruction and equipment for rowing, kayaking, sailing, surfing, windsurfing and paddleboarding.
Visit UCLA Recreation
Student Government
UCLA is home to a strong tradition of student government, and students play an active role in determining what happens on campus. The
Undergraduate Students Association
and the
Graduate Student Association
empower students to allocate budgets, found new clubs and develop a campus that reflects their values.
74%
of undergraduates participate in student clubs or organizations
Arts and Culture
There are myriad ways to get involved in arts and culture on campus, as a spectator and as a creator. Students are DJs for
Campus Radio
, they’re writers and editors at the
Daily Bruin
, and they enjoy films together at
Melnitz Movies
, a student-run repertory cinema program.
The
Student Committee for the Arts at UCLA
is the student branch of the world-renowned Center for the Art of Performance at UCLA. Students involved with SCA work frequently with the CAP UCLA staff to promote the performing arts on campus and produce events that showcase student artists.
Business and Entrepreneur­ship
UCLA students are the driving force behind a vibrant culture of business and entrepreneurship. With an annual membership of over 5,000, the
Undergraduate Business Society
is the largest student organization at UCLA. Students have many opportunities to gain real-world knowledge and experience, including
Startup UCLA’s
Summer Accelerator, a 10-week program designed to help entrepreneurial students succeed at developing their own businesses.
Volunteering
Through the
UCLA Volunteer Center
, Bruins embody one of UCLA’s core values: service. Volunteer Day event kicks off the academic year with more than 5,000 Bruins serving at sites across Los Angeles. Throughout the year, Bruin volunteers partner with local organizations to support our community in a multitude of ways, from providing healthcare and services to the homeless to serving meals to veterans on Thanksgiving.
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept