Medical School Admissions | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Admissions
DGSOM: Where ambition meets joy
Medical School Admissions
Launch the life you were meant to lead at UCLA Medical School
Chase breakthroughs, unleash discoveries and find your people at a nationally ranked
medical school
, on a vibrant campus, in one of the most diverse cities in the world.
Download our brochure
Visit AAMC MSAR Page
Take a virtual tour
Contact Admissions
The Office of Admissions staff is working remotely until further notice.
Inquiries should be directed via email during this time:
somadmiss@mednet.ucla.edu
UCLA-DGSOM, Three ways to get an MD+
TRADITIONAL MD
Join a strong environment where students make an impact as they prepare for a future in which scientific knowledge, societal values, and human needs are ever-changing. Change the face of medicine with us.
Learn more
PRIME-LA
PRIME-LA is a 5-year dual degree program focusing on the development of leaders in medicine who will improve health care delivery, research, and policy in underserved communities.
Visit site
MSTP
In partnership with Caltech, the Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP) is dedicated to educating and training exceptionally qualified individuals for careers in the biomedical and socio-medical sciences.
Explore now
Optional Pathways to enhance your educational experience
Students may also choose to apply to one of our optional pathways, which provides a more focused educational experience in one of two areas.
diversity_1
Urban Health Equity Pathway
For students who are interested in a focus on knowledge, skills, and experience with communities that have historically been economically and socially marginalized, with limited access to healthcare, focusing on South Los Angeles.
public
Global Health Equity Pathway
For students who wish to have transformative global experiences that will shape their practice and stay with them for life.
Admissions Events
View Admissions events
Feb
21
Virtual
Admissions Virtual Office Hours
Event Date
February 21, 2024 | 11am
-
12pm
Recent
February 14, 2024 | 11am
-
12pm
Upcoming
February 28, 2024 | 11am
-
12pm
+ more dates
Feb
23
Virtual
DGSOM Pre-med Insights Series: Preparing for the Med School Application
Event Date
February 23, 2024 | 10am
-
3pm
Mar
23
In-Person
Bakersfield College: 2024 MESA STEM & Pre-Health Conference
Event Date
March 23, 2024 | 11am
-
12:30pm
Apr
11
Virtual
DGSOM Pre-med Insight Series: Planning Your Finances
Event Date
April 11, 2024 | 3
-
4pm
COVID-19 and Admissions
We are sensitive to the challenges for applicants due to COVID-19 and take that into consideration.
Full Statement Below
Response to COVID-19: Information for 2024 Admissions Cycle
Updated DGSOM Statement
(Dated: February 22, 2023)
The David Geffen School of Medicine is sensitive to the challenges imposed on applicants due to the COVID-19 pandemic and has taken steps to assess the pandemic impact in the holistic application review process. We understand that applicant premedical experiences during the pandemic will continue to undergo modifications. There will be various opportunities in the application to detail any impacts on coursework, activities, and beyond.
Please note that:
1) Applicants should include all relevant experiences on the application, including virtual or in-person activities.
2) Applicants should include courses whether virtual or in-person.  Grading options will be accepted (letter grades or pass/fail assessments) based on personal needs during the years 2020 and 2021.
3) MCAT scores from January 2018 through September 15, 2023, will be accepted for consideration.
The wide-ranging effects of the pandemic have engendered remarkable resilience in our applicants. We view this resilience as an asset to the field of medicine and the next generation of physicians. Careful consideration of the pandemic impact will be assessed during the review of each application.
Live Your Life of Impact Here
You'll find yourself in one of the most diverse cities in the world. Our community is made up of amazing, strong, and talented leaders who care deeply and work to impact our world for good.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login