Med Degree | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Degrees and Programs
Your Potential is Unlimited Here
Training so comprehensive it expands how you define yourself.
A dynamic new medical school curriculum, a range of articulated and concurrent masters and medical degree programs, and once-in-a-lifetime learning experiences spanning diverse training environments empower medical students to fulfill and expand their potential.
Ways to Get an MD+
Traditional MD Program
The medical school creates a strong environment where students make an impact as they prepare for a future in which scientific knowledge, societal values, and human needs are ever-changing.
Explore New Curriculum
Dual Degree Programs
Our footprint on a large University campus coupled with the relationships that have been built across the other professional schools and research departments allow us to provide a range of articulate and concurrent masters and medical degree programs.
PRIME-LA
PRIME-LA is a dual masters and medical degree program focusing on the development of leaders in medicine who will improve health care delivery, research, and policy in underserved communities.
Learn More About PRIME-LA
MSTP
The UCLA-Caltech Medical Scientist Training Program (MSTP) is dedicated to educating and training exceptionally qualified individuals for careers in the biomedical and socio-medical sciences.
Learn More About MSTP
DREW/UCLA
The Charles R. Drew/UCLA Medical Education Program was established in 1978 between the Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Science in South Los Angeles and the UCLA School of Medicine. The program fosters the development of leaders who will advance medical practice and knowledge and are dedicated to social justice and health equity for underserved populations in the United States and abroad. Students complete the same curriculum, but also complete coursework focused on the care of diverse and disadvantaged populations, take clinical rotations at sites in underserved communities, and complete a thesis related to disparities in health.
The Drew/UCLA Medical Education Program is no longer accepting applications and will be transitioning after the Class of 2027 into the
Urban Health Equity Pathway
, a new chapter in the over 40-year partnership between the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA (DGSOM) and the Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Science (CDU).
Learn More About DREW/UCLA
Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery Program
The School of Dentistry Section of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, in conjunction with DGSOM, offers a six-year training program that leads to a MD degree and a certificate of specialization.
Learn More at the UCLA School of Dentistry
Concurrent and Articulated Degree Programs
DGSOM students who are in good academic/professional standing and have successfully completed their required core clerkships may pursue one of the following UCLA dual masters and medical degree programs:
MD / Masters in Business Administration (MBA)
MD / Masters in Public Health (MPH)
MD / Masters in Public Policy (MPP)
MD / Masters of Science in Clinical Research (MS)
MD / Masters in Legal Studies (MLS)
MD / Masters of Arts in Education (MA)
Graduation Competencies and Program Requirements
What we aspire our graduates to be, our competencies.
Medical Student Handbook
Global Health Program
Transformative global experiences that will shape your practice and stay with you for life.
Global Health Program
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login