Medical School Research | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Research Opportunities
See Yourself Training With Amazing People
Pursue your passion for research and scientific inquiry in medical school.
Students can engage in exciting research projects that could last a summer or a lifetime. You will be given outstanding opportunities to contribute to scientific discovery and be exposed to our world-renowned faculty whose ever-evolving innovations and groundbreaking research inform scientific and medical thought around the globe.
FAQ
How do I sign up for a research elective?
To sign up for a research elective, please follow the simple steps below:
Find a research mentor
UCLA research mentors must have a UCLA faculty appointment. Away research mentors must hold a faculty appointment at their respective sites. Away research will count as part of the 12 weeks allowed for AWAY electives.
Faculty mentors will be sent an evaluation request. The expectation is that you are in close contact with your faculty mentor and they are aware of your activities. If you are doing two blocks of time with the same mentor, even if the two blocks are discontinuous, your mentor will be asked to complete one summative evaluation. If you do two blocks with two different faculty mentors, each mentor will be asked to fill out an evaluation.
Find a time in your 4th year to schedule your research
Research can either be one block of six consecutive weeks or split into two blocks of time (3-week block + 3-week block, 2 + 4, or 1 + 5).  You may also not schedule your research electives during any mandatory week, such as Foundations for Fourth Year or Match week. We realize that research time often involves writing, data analysis, and other tasks that can be included during a time when you are also doing other things, like participating in residency interviews. Please feel free to schedule research blocks during the times you will be interviewing.
Fill out the Research Elective Proposal and submit it early
If you are working at a site other than UCLA, please submit the research proposal survey two weeks from your desired start date. Retroactive requests for credit will not be approved.
Research Elective Proposal Survey
How can I request research funding? What are the requirements?
The Office for Research and Scholarship is dedicated to supporting DGSOM medical students' interest in research and scholarly work. For the academic Year 2023-2024, we are able to offer up to $600 in support to all DGSOM students who have had their research abstract accepted to a journal, meeting, or conference. Students are eligible to receive funding once per academic cycle
(July1-June 30)
. This support is designated to offset your expenses for registration for a virtual conference or an in-person conference, abstract submission, or conference-related costs. Travel-related costs will be approved and reimbursed providing all COVID-related guidelines are followed as it pertains to travel.
Students will receive an official approval email after the submission of a funding request online.
Funding Request Form
Funding Requirements:
Must be accepted to present at a conference or meeting (provide a copy of the email notice or letter stating you have been accepted to present)
Must be 1st author on abstract to receive funding (the exception to this will be if 1st author on abstract is unable to present and you are presenting in their place in which an email is required from the PI giving their approval)
Provide a copy of your abstract
Provide a copy of the conference registration
Please wait to receive funding approval before seeking reimbursement for conference-related expenses
Documentation and proof of payment for conference registration and all conference-related expenses are required
You are allowed funding once per academic cycle
**Please note that reimbursements take a minimum of 3 weeks before funds are sent out**
UCLA Accounting is now asking for students to have a Zelle Account set-up for funds to be sent once reimbursements are finalized
What are the guidelines for external research and independent grant funding?
Important information for students seeking independent grant funding:
Extramural grant proposals submitted without a research faculty mentor, the Dean's Office, and the UCLA Office of Contract and Grant Administration (OCGA) approval, cannot be accepted or processed by the Dean's Office for funds management and disbursement.
If you are thinking of applying to an external research summer opportunity or yearlong research opportunity that requires a formal grant proposal application or the university receiving and administrating grant funds, please discuss with your faculty research mentor, assistant dean, or program director before you begin the proposal application process so they can determine if you will need approval from the UCLA Office of Contract and Grant Administration (OCGA) before submitting.
All outgoing grants must follow strict university guidelines and protocols and must be approved by OCGA before submitting. All grants processed through OCGA require multiple signatures by leadership prior to submission (UCLA clinical department chair/division, medical school Dean, etc). Only OCGA has the authority for agreements with the government, non-profit, and higher education organizations.
All UCLA grants must be approved by OCGA before they are submitted to outside funders. OCGA assists the campus research community in reviewing, approving, and submitting proposal applications and negotiating and executing contracts and grants from government and non-profit sponsors.
A true appreciation for curiosity can’t be taught in a classroom. Our students and trainees develop it while working alongside mentors who possess decades of experience and numerous accolades but nevertheless demonstrate a fierce openness for exploring new possibilities and testing prior assumptions.
Shamar Jones, Advisor for Medical Student Research and Scholarships
DGSOM Research
DGSOM Researchers redefine what is possible in patient care. They elucidate biological processes and solve medical mysteries, expanding established knowledge to heal humankind—one breakthrough at a time.
Groundbreaking Research
DGSOM Discovery
A protected time for a deep and substantive creative and scholarly experience in an area of your interest.
Year Three
Senior Scholarship Day
Students share their findings and experiences from a rich array of diverse research and community engagement projects every year.
Senior Scholarship Day
Resources
Research Policies
Research Safety
Connect with Us
Medical Student Research and Scholarships
Shamar Jones
Research Advisor
Call
: 310-825-0725
Email
:
snjones@mednet.ucla.edu
Shamar Jones
Curriculum Coordinator: Discovery Year Advisor and Coordinator & Advisor for Medical Student Research
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login