Courses – Department of Life Sciences Core Education
Twitter
Dribbble
Courses
LS 7A – Cell and Molecular Biology (5 Units)
Course Description
Lecture, three hours; discussion 75 minutes. Enforced requisite: none. Introduction to basic principles of cell structure and cell biology, basic principles of biochemistry and molecular biology. P/NP or letter grading.
Course Learning Goals and Objectives
List of Topics
Week 1-Chemistry
Chemistry of Life
Week 2- Cell Organization
Cell Organization
Membranes
Week 3-Energy and Enzymes and Cell Respiration
Energy
Enzymes and Metabolic Pathways
Cellular Respiration
Week 4-Energy Conversion Pathways
Cellular Respiration
Photosynthesis
Week 5-Nucleic Acids and Transcription
Nucleic Acids
Transcription
Week 6-Proteins and Translation
Proteins and Translation
Protein Sorting and Trafficking
Week 7-Control of Gene Expression
Prokaryotic Gene Expression
Eukaryotic Gene Expression
Week 8-Recombinant DNA and DNA Replication and The Cell Cycle
Recombinant DNA
Cell Cycle
DNA Replication
Week 9-PCR,VNTR, and Genome Variation
Polymerase Chain Reaction (PCR)
Variable Number Tandem Repeat (VNTR)
Genome Variation
Week 10-DNA Mutation and Repair
DNA Mutation and Repair
Cell Cycle
Cell Division
LS 7B – Genetics, Evolution and Ecology (5 Units)
Course Description
Lecture, three hours; discussion 110 minutes. Enforced requisite: LS 7A. Principles of Mendelian inheritance and population genetics; Introduction to principles and mechanisms of evolution by natural selection; population, behavioral, and community ecology; and biodiversity, including major taxa and their evolutionary, ecological and physiological relationships. Letter grading.
List of Topics
Week 1 Meiosis and Mendelian Genetics
Meiosis
Mendel’s Laws
Week 2 Pedigrees and Genetic Linkage
Patterns of Inheritance
Week 3 Genetic and Environmental Basis of Complex Traits
Linkage and Non-disjunction
Gene Mapping
Genetic Variation
Week 4 Evolution
Modes of Selection
Hardy-Weinberg
Mechanisms of Evolution
Week 5 Evolution, fitness curves and landscapes, and species concepts
Applications of Hardy-Weinberg
Speciation
Week 6 Phylogenies
Phylogenetic Trees
Biodiversity through Time
Week 7 Diversification Processes
Adaptive Radiations and Extinctions
Applications of Ecology
Week 8 General Ecology
Demography
Population Ecology
Week 9 Species Interaction and Community Structure
Species Interactions
Community Ecology
Week 10 Global Ecology and Conservation
Global Ecology
Special Topics
LS 7C – Physiology and Human Biology (5 Units)
Course Description
Lecture, three hours; discussion 75 minutes. Enforced requisite: LS 7B. Organization of cells into tissues and organs, and principles of physiology of organ systems. Introduction to human genetics and genomics. Letter grading.
List of Topics
Week 1 Multicellularity and Cell Communication
Cell Communication & Development
Cell Form & Function (Diversity, Multicellular Tissues)
Week 2 Neurons and Nervous System
Neuron Structure & Function
The Nervous System
Week 3 Homeostasis,Nervous System, and Reproductive Cycles
Intro to Homeostasis
Endocrine System
Human Reproductive Cycles
Week 4 Muscles and Sensory Systems
Sensory Systems
Muscles & Skeletal Systems
Week 5 Gas Exchange and Cardiovascular System
Respiratory System & Gas Exchange
Cardiovascular System
Week 6 Osmoregulation and Nutrition, Digestion, and Absorption
Water and Ion Balance
Renal System
Digestion
Week 7 The Human Microbe and Immune System
Gut Microbiome
Immune System
Week 8 Sequencing Genomes
Human Genetics/Biology: Sequencing Genomes
Week 9 Analyzing Genomes
Human Genetics/Biology: Analyzing Genomes
Week 10 Editing Genomes
Human Genetics/Biology: Editing Genomes
*Although courses are listed in this order they may move around in lecture
LS 15: Life: Concepts and Issues (5 Units)
Course Description
Lecture, three hours; discussion, two hours. Introduction to important concepts and issues in the field for non-life sciences majors. Topics include chemistry of life, genetics, physiology, evolution, and ecology — all explored in lecture and debates, with a writing component. P/NP or letter grading.
Course Learning Goals and Objectives
The nature of science
Science and its relation to human activity
Darwin story Basic Evolution
Patterns of Evolution
Co-evolution and symbiosis
DNA replication and inheritance
Genetic Engineering
Sexual reproduction and Genetic Diseases
Patterns of sexual reproduction
Evolutionary basis of Behavior
Sociobiology
Human Evolution and behavior
Principles of Ecology
Biodiversity
Global warming, materials cycles & climatic patterns
Biogeography & Introduced species
Water resources
Environmental Legislation and Action
Environmental Success Stories and Failures
Links
General Syllabus
LS 23L: Introduction to Laboratory & Scientific Methodology (3 units)
Course Description
Lecture, one hour; laboratory, three hours. Requisite: course 2 or 7B. Recommended to be taken concurrently with course 7C. Introductory life sciences laboratory designed for undergraduate students. Opportunity to conduct wet-laboratory and cutting-edge bioinformatics laboratory experiments. Students work in groups of three conducting experiments in areas of physiology, metabolism, cell biology, molecular biology, genotyping, and bioinformatics. Letter grading.
Course details
Scientific Writing
LS 23L has a significant scientific writing component, and you will learn to write a scientific style research paper and participate in a Calibrated Peer Review process with your peers. You should expect to spend an additional three hours per week, every week, working on your CPR assignments. In total, you should plan to spend nine hours per week on this course.
WHO SHOULD TAKE THIS COURSE?
You should take this course if you have already taken LS 7B. We recommend that you take LS 23L concurrently with LS 7C. If you are not concurrently enrolled in LS 7C and haven’t taken it in the past, you can still take LS 23L. However, you should be aware that LS 23L contains physiology labs and there will be some physiology content on the final. If you haven’t taken LS 7C you could be at a disadvantage and will have to spend more time learning the background concepts.
Course Goals and Student Learning Outcomes
List of Topics
Introduction to Scientific Methodology
Epidemiology and Laboratory Techniques
Biochemical Assay of b-Galactosidase Activity
Metabolism in Goldfish
DNA Isolation and Amplification
Polyacrylamide and Agarose Gel Electrophoresis
LAB G- Human Physiology
Rat Dissection
Microscopy and Histology
Sequence Analysis and Maternal Lineages
Links
Lab Website:
http://ls23L.lscore.ucla.ed
u
LS 30A: Mathematics for Life Scientists (5 Units)
Course Description
Lecture, three hours; laboratory, two hours. Preparation: three years of high school mathematics (to algebra II), some basic familiarity with computers. Mathematical modeling as tool for understanding dynamics of biological systems. Fundamental concepts of single-variable calculus and development of single- and multi-variable differential equation models of dynamical processes in ecology, physiology, and other subjects in which quantities change with time. Use of free computer program Sage for problem solving, plotting, and dynamical simulation in laboratory. Letter grading.
Course details
This course teaches mathematical modeling as a tool for understanding the dynamics of biological systems. We will begin with the fundamental concepts of single-variable calculus, and then
develop single- and multi-variable differential equation models of dynamical processes in ecology, physiology and other subjects in which quantities change with time. The laboratory will use the free
computer program Sage for problem-solving, plotting and dynamical simulation. The necessary basic programming concepts and skills, such as program flow control and data structures, will be
introduced. (No prior programming experience is assumed.)
Lecture, 3 hours.
Computational laboratory, 1 hour and 50 minutes
Preparation : three years of high school mathematics (up to Algebra II), some basic
familiarity with computers.
Textbook
Garfinkel, Alan, Jane Shevtsov, and Yina Guo.
Modeling life: the mathematics of biological systems
. Springer, 2017.
Major topics, by Week
Week 1
Introduction to modeling and differential equations
The importance of dynamics in biology.
Week 2
State spaces, vector fields and trajectories
Differential equations as instructions for constructing vector fields
Behavior as a trajectory through state space
Attractors and forms of behavior
Week 3-4
The derivative
Algebraic and geometric interpretations
Simple rules for differentiation
The shapes of functions
Maxima, minima and inflection points
Optimization as an application of the derivative
Week 4-5
Integration; linear approximation and Euler’s method
How trajectories arise from vector fields
Numerical integration
Recovering f from f′: integration as the area under f′
Fundamental Theorem of Calculus.
Week 6
Exponential growth and decay
From discrete to continuous time
Linear differential equations
Week 7
Equilibrium points and graphical stability analysis
The concept of dynamical stability
Assessing the stability of equilibria in 1-D
Week 8
Types of equilibria in 2-D
Stability and instability of equilibria
Week 9
Bifurcations of fixed points: qualitative changes in behavior from quantitative changes in parameters
Simple examples of saddle-node and pitchfork bifurcations in 1- and 2-D
Biological examples
Week 10
Limit cycle attractors
Oscillations in biology
Negative feedback as a cause of oscillation
Introduction to Hopf Bifurcation
LS 30B: Mathematics for Life Scientists (5 Units)
Course Description
Lecture, three hours; laboratory, two hours. Enforced requisite: course 30A. Introduction to concept of matrices and linear transformations to equip students with some basic tools to understand dynamics of multivariable nonlinear systems. Examples from ecological, physiological, chemical, and other systems. Letter grading.
Course details
Textbook
Garfinkel, Alan, Jane Shevtsov, and Yina Guo.
Modeling life: the mathematics of biological systems
. Springer, 2017.
Major topics, by Week
Week 1
Delay differential equations
Time delays as a cause of oscillation
Week 2
Nonlinear difference equations and chaos
Discrete logistic equation
Introduction to properties of chaos
Erratic and aperiodic behavior from deterministic models
Week 3
Chaos in systems of differential equations
Examples of chaotic behavior in biology and physiology
Week 4-5
Concept of a linear function
Vectors and linear transformations of vectors
Matrices as representing linear transformations in N-space
Operations on matrices
Matrix multiplication representing the composition of linear functions
Week 6
The dynamics of matrix models
Iterated matrices and discrete time systems: steady states, growth and decay, oscillations
Week 7
Eigenvalues and eigenvectors
Dynamical significance of eigenvalues and eigenvectors of matrices that represent linear ODEs
Week 8
The stability of equilibria in 2D and in N dimensions
Linearization: analytical approach to stability of nonlinear equations in one dimension
Week 9
Partial derivatives
Linear approximations to functions in higher dimensions
Week 10
T
The stability of equilibria in higher dimensions
The Jacobian matrix in stability analysis
Hopf bifurcation: the role of complex conjugate eigenvalues
LS 40: Statistics for Life Sciences (5 units)
Course Description
Lecture, three hours; laboratory, two hours. Requisite: course 30A. Designed for life sciences students. Introduction to statistics with emphasis on computer simulation of chance probabilities as replacement for traditional formula-based approach. Simulations allow for deeper understanding of statistical concepts, and are applicable to wider class of distributions and estimators. Students learn simple programming language to carry out statistical simulations, and apply them to classic problems of elementary statistics. Letter grading.
Course details
Texts
Garfinkel, Alan and Yina Guo. Understanding Data: An Experimental Approach to Statistics.
Major Topics, by Week
Week 1
Crisis of irreproducible experiments and unreliable conclusions
Exploring, visualizing, and describing data
Week 2
Concept of probability and how to simulate chance events
The “Null Hypothesis” and the calculation of p-values
Week 3
Quantifying uncertainty: confidence intervals
Foundations of Bootstrapping
Week 4
Comparing two groups
Dealing with small samples and rank-based tests
Week 5
Paired data.
Problems of multiple testing. Three or more groups: one-way ANOVA.
Week 6
Correcting for multiple testing
Tests of proportions
Week 7
Relative Risk and tests of homogeneity versus independence
The non-normal concept of Normality
Week 8
Bivariate data: correlation
Ordinary least squares linear regression, practice and problems
Week 9
The wider world of regression
Statistical power and its importance in positive and negative findings
Week 10
Bayesianism and Bayesian updating
Applying Bayes theorem to diagnostic testing
LS 101: Understanding Scientific Literature and Context (2.0-4.0 Units Variable)
Course Description
Seminar/discussion, one to two hours. Introduction to set of skills proven to help students read and understand scientific research papers. Offers opportunity to practice those skills while interacting with scientists at UCLA. Reading and understanding scientific research papers is skill. It can develop quickly and be refined/practiced for rest of scientific journey. Uses CREATE learning framework, Consider, Read, Elucidate hypotheses, Analyze and interpret data, and Think of next Experiment. At UCLA, CREATESS! uses additional dimensions of final Synthesis and Social context. Students work within learning pod and are guided by lead instructors. P/NP or letter grading.
LS 107. Genetics (5 Units)
Course Description
Lecture, three hours; discussion, 75 minutes. Requisites: courses 7C, 23L, Chemistry 14A (or 20A), 14C (or 30A). Not open for credit to students with credit for course 4. Advanced Mendelian genetics, recombination, biochemical genetics, mutation, DNA, genetic code, gene regulation, genes in populations. Letter grading.
LS 110. Career Exploration in Life Sciences (2 Units)
Course Description
Seminar, two hours. Recommended for sophomore and incoming transfer students. Designed to help life sciences students expand awareness of their interests, needs, and skills to make deliberate career choices. Introduction to many components that go into making effective career decisions to help students explore diversity of career options for life sciences majors. P/NP grading.
LS M192A: Introduction to Collaborative Learning Theory and Practice (1 Unit)
Course Description
(Formerly numbered 192A.) (Same as Chemistry M192E, Computer Science M192A, Mathematics M192A, and Physics M192S.) Seminar, one hour. Training seminar for undergraduate students who are selected for learning assistant (LA) program. Exploration of current topics in pedagogy and education research focused on methods of learning and their practical application in small-group settings. Students practice communication skills with frequent assessment of and feedback on progress. Letter grading.
LS 192B: Methods and Application of Collaborative Learning Theory in Life Sciences (3 Units)
Course Description
Seminar, one hour; clinic, six hours. 3 units. Requisites: course 192A (may be taken concurrently) and at least one term of prior experience in same course in which collaborative learning theory is practiced and refined under supervision of instructors. With instructor guidance, students apply pedagogical principles based on current education research, assist with development of innovative instructional materials, and receive frequent feedback on their progress. May be repeated three times for credit. Combination of courses 192B, 192C, 192D, and 192E may not be taken for more than total of 4 times or 4 courses. Letter grading.
LS 192C: Methods and Application of Collaborative Learning Theory in Life Sciences (4 Units)
Course Description
Seminar, three hours; clinic, nine hours. 4units. Requisites: course 192A (may be taken concurrently) and at least one term of prior experience in same course in which collaborative learning theory is practiced and refined under supervision of instructors. With instructor guidance, students apply pedagogical principles based on current education research, assist with development of innovative instructional materials, and receive frequent feedback on their progress. May be repeated three times for credit. Combination of courses 192B, 192C, 192D, and 192E may not be taken for more than total of 4 times or 4 courses. Letter grading.
LS 192D: Methods and Application of Collaborative Learning Theory in Life Sciences (2 Units)
Course Description
Seminar, three hours; clinic, three hours. 2 units. Requisites: course 192A (may be taken concurrently) and at least one term of prior experience in same course in which collaborative learning theory is practiced and refined under supervision of instructors. With instructor guidance, students apply pedagogical principles based on current education research, assist with development of innovative instructional materials, and receive frequent feedback on their progress. May be repeated three times for credit. Combination of courses 192B, 192C, 192D, and 192E may not be taken for more than total of 4 times or 4 courses. Letter grading.
LS 192E: Methods and Application of Collaborative Learning Theory in Life Sciences (1 Unit)
Course Description
Seminar, one hour; clinic, two hours. Requisites: course 192A (may be taken concurrently) and at least one term of prior experience in same course in which collaborative learning theory is practiced and refined under supervision of instructors. With instructor guidance, students apply pedagogical principles based on current education research, assist with development of innovative instructional materials, and receive frequent feedback on their progress. May be repeated three times for credit. Combination of courses 192B, 192C, 192D, and 192E may not be taken for more than total of 4 times or 4 courses. Letter grading.
LS 192G: Collaborative Learning Theory and Practice: Anti-Racism Discourse (1 Unit)
Course Description
Seminar
LS 495: Preparation for College-Level Teaching in the Life Sciences (2 Units)
Course Description
This 495 TA training course is designed for graduate students who are teaching assistants (TAs) in the Life Sciences Core Education Department (LS Core). This course is to be taken concurrently with the term in which you are teaching for the first time in the LS Core. The pedagogical knowledge, instructional methodologies, and peer observation strategies covered in this course are suitable for teaching in large enrollment undergraduate courses with secondary sections overseen by TAs (i.e., discussion sections, laboratory sections, computational laboratory sections). With an emphasis on creating inclusive learning environments for our students, topics in this course will include active learning, peer instruction and other collaborative or group activities, reflective teaching models, assessment and course design approaches that promote transparency and equity in the classroom. This course also provides resources to support your lifelong learning and ongoing professional development as a teacher, a scientist, and a science communicator. By the end of this course, you will have observed and collected a portfolio of instructional materials and approaches to apply in your own courses now as a TA and in your future career. You should also leave with knowledge about the literature supporting the merits of student-centered teaching practices as a means to promote the academic success and persistence of all UCLA undergraduate students.
Course details
Requisites for LS 495:
Annual TA Orientation Meeting with LS Core faculty and instructors held during zero week of fall quarter.
Quarterly TA Organizational Meeting with LS Core SAOs/lab staff.
Learning Goals:
Students will acquire foundational knowledge about learning theory, course design, and evidenced-based teaching techniques in order to foster an inclusive learning environment.
Students will apply new knowledge of evidence-based teaching techniques through deliberate practice informed by multiple feedback opportunities.
Students will integrate their learning from LS 495 to improve other aspects of their graduate education and support their overall professional development as a scientist.
Students will develop new insights and awareness about their own perspectives and experiences and how these impact their interactions within the UCLA community and society.
Students will reflect on their potential to have a large positive impact on student success in their role as a Teaching Assistant at UCLA.
Students will explore and reflect on which strategies for teaching, learning, and communication are most effective for themselves and their students.
LS 7A
LS 7B
LS 7C
LS 15
LS 23L
LS 30A
LS 30B
LS 40
LS 101
LS 107
LS 110
LS M192A
LS 192B
LS 192C
LS 192D
LS 192E
LS 192G
LS 495
UCLA
Life Sciences Core Education
621 Charles E. Young Dr. South
Los Angeles,CA 90095-7246
2317 Life Sciences Building
Phone: (310)825-6614
Information
Directory
Academic Calendar
Careers
Getting Around
Maps & Directions
Parking
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
Connect
Alumni
Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Families
Faculty
Staff
Media & Journalists
Resources
© Copyright  -
Department of Life Sciences Core Education
-
powered by Enfold WordPress Theme
Twitter
Dribbble
Scroll to top