Enrolling in Courses – Department of Life Sciences Core Education
Twitter
Dribbble
Enrolling in Courses
Normally students can enroll in all courses on their own. However, many students are blocked from enrolling in some courses that have prerequisites. This is because sometimes the enrollment system is unable to interpret course equivalencies from other schools, or whether you may have received AP credit for some prerequisites. If you took the equivalent of LS 7A elsewhere, and you try to enroll in a course for which LS 7A is a prerequisite, the enrollment system can only look to see whether you specifically took LS 7A at UCLA. It can’t tell whether you’ve been given credit on your DARS, no matter what. Whenever this situation arises, contact the department of the course in which you want to enroll directly (for LS 7B, for example, this would be the Life Sciences Core office), and they will check your DARS to see whether the list in question is on your list of transferred courses (regardless of whether you’ve been given credit for the major) and enroll you.
Enrollment Request Form
We respond to all inquiries within 24-48 hours throughout the week. If your message is sent after 1PM on Friday, we will respond by the following week.
First Name
(Required)
Last Name
(Required)
Email
(Required)
UID
(Required)
Major
(Required)
Provide Course and Lecture (ex: LS 7B Lec 1, LS 7B Lec 2, etc.)
(Required)
List 5-7 open sections in priority order (ex: 1A, 1C, 1M, 1E, 1G, 1K, and 1D)
(Required)
Quarter
Fall
Winter
Spring
Summer
Reason you are unable to enroll
(Required)
UCLA
Life Sciences Core Education
621 Charles E. Young Dr. South
Los Angeles,CA 90095-7246
2317 Life Sciences Building
Phone: (310)825-6614
Information
Directory
Academic Calendar
Careers
Getting Around
Maps & Directions
Parking
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
Connect
Alumni
Prospective Students
Current Students
Parents & Families
Faculty
Staff
Media & Journalists
Resources
© Copyright  -
Department of Life Sciences Core Education
-
powered by Enfold WordPress Theme
Twitter
Dribbble
Scroll to top