Negotiated Salary Trial Program (NSTP) | Academic Affairs and Personnel
Skip to Main Content
Academic Affairs and Personnel
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Compensation
Negotiated Salary Trial Program (NSTP)
NEGOTIATED SALARY TRIAL PROGRAM (NSTP) PHASE TWO
The Negotiated Salary Trial Program (NSTP) is a general campus negotiated salary plan that allows ladder-rank and in-residence faculty to voluntarily contribute external funding resources toward their total UC salary. The total UC salary consists of the faculty member’s base salary plus a negotiated salary component that is capped at 30% of the base salary (academic or fiscal, including off-scale). The total negotiated salary is effective for a one-year period corresponding with the University fiscal cycle of July 1 through June 30. Like the well-established Health Sciences Compensation Plan (HSCP), the NSTP utilizes external fund sources to support negotiated salary increments for participating faculty, providing incentives to generate additional external funds and rewarding academic achievement.
The NSTP program began its 5-year pilot trial in 2013, and moved into an extended phase starting on July 1, 2018.
FY 2023-24 is the sixth year of the second phase of the trial
. To participate, faculty members must be in good standing with regard to all teaching, research, and service obligations, and remain compliant with all applicable University policies, procedures, and training requirements.
The NSTP at UCLA: 2023-24
2023-24 Call for Applications
2023-24 Negotiated Salary Trial Program (NSTP) Participation Form for Academic Year Faculty
2023-24 Negotiated Salary Trial Program (NSTP) Participation Form for Fiscal Year Faculty
NSTP Phase Two Implementation Procedures
NSTP Phase Two Approval and Appeal Process
NSTP Additional Extension Letter 9-12-2022
Report of the NSTP Phase 2 Taskforce
UCPATH NSTP Job Aid Reference
FAQs
The campus units that are participating in the 2023-24 NSTP program include the Anderson School of Management, the Fielding School of Public Health, the Graduate School of Education & Information Studies, the Henry Samueli School of Engineering & Applied Science, the Luskin School of Public Affairs, the School of Nursing, and four divisions of the College of Letters and Science: Humanities, Life Sciences, Physical Sciences, and Social Sciences.
The 2023-24 NSTP runs from July 1, 2023 to June 30, 2024. All eligible faculty at participating schools and divisions may request to join the program. For questions regarding the NSTP, please contact Rong Jiang at
rjiang@conet.ucla.edu
.
Web page updated April 7, 2023
Contact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use