Medical School Documents & Verifications | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Document Requests and Verifications
Medical School Alumni Resources
MD Alumni Document Request Form
Request to obtain any of the following documents:
Transcript(s)
Dean’s Letter (MPSE)
MD Verification Letter/Form
Licensure Form
Complete and submit the Document Request through
Parchment
on the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA store front. This process is only for Alumni, current students please refer to use the
Document Request Form (PDF)
.
Per AAMC policy to minimize potential fraud, an electronic transcript issued directly to the former student will be identified as “Issued to graduate".
Certified Copy of Medical Diploma
For graduates of the Class of 2001 or later, complete and submit the Document Request on
Parchment
.
For graduates of the Class of 2000 or earlier, please include a copy of your diploma with your document request on parchment by uploading the attachment. If you do not have one, please complete and submit the
Duplicate Diploma Form
to the UCLA Registrar at Murphy Hall.
Duplicate Diploma Form (PDF)
PLEASE NOTE
:
Processing time is up to 3 weeks, depending upon the time of year and request volume.
Applying for a Medical Board of California License
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA must submit the following documents to support your license application to the California Medical Board.
Certification of Medical Education Form (Form MED)
Official Transcript
Certified copy of Diploma
PLEASE NOTE
:
Processing time is up to 3 weeks, depending upon the time of year and request volume.
Instructions and Process for Parchment
Complete the top portion of Form MED which you will find in the license application packet. Upload the form to Parchment when ordering the California Medical Board Packet. You can also email the Form MED to
registrar@mednet.ucla.edu
Order the California Medical Board Packet online through
Parchment
. The Packet will include the CA Form, Official Transcript, and certified Diploma copy that will be uploaded onto DOCS. For the Destination Field, please select electronic delivery then enter your own contact information as these fields are required. The fee for this packet is $30.
MD Verification and other State Medical Board Licensure
Complete/sign the applicant information on the section of the form provided by the institution/state before attaching the form to your order in
Parchment
. Third-Parties must include a signed release form from the graduate in the same file as the form that needs to be completed
When ordering the
MD Verification/ Non-CA Licensure
, you will have the option to add an Official Transcript and/or MSPE (Dean’s Letter) to your order. Each document will be an additional $10.
PLEASE NOTE
: Processing time is 3 weeks, depending upon time of year and request volume.
ERAS/MIDUS/EFDO: MSPE and Transcript Requests
Have your documents (MSPE and transcript) uploaded through ERAS/MIDUS/EFDO.
PLEASE NOTE
: Processing time is 3 weeks, depending upon time of year and request volume.
Instructions and Process
Fill out the document request on
Parchment
. The fee for the official transcript and MSPE (Dean's letter) is $10 per document. You will need to order both in the same order.
For the Destination Field, please select electronic delivery then enter your own contact information as these fields are required. Once finished ordering the Official Transcript, it will show a summary page, make sure to press
Back
on the left to go back to the available credentials.
On the available credentials page, add the MSPE to your order. Where it says
Upload Instructions
, please select if these documents are to be uploaded to ERAS or MIDUS through the MSPE product.
Provide this contact information for the DGSOM Official on the ERAS/MIDUS/EFDO portal:
Lee Miller, M.D., Associate Dean for Student Affairs
registrar@mednet.ucla.edu
(310) 206-0434
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Student Affairs Office, Geffen Hall Suite 200
885 Tiverton Drive, Box 951720
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1720
MIDUS will send us a secure link to upload your requested documents.
We will upload your transcript and Dean’s Letter (MPSE).
You will receive an automated confirmation email from ERAS/MIDUS/EFDO once the process is complete.
Guidelines
Both the Document Request Form and electronic payment must be received in order for us to process your request.
Credit cards or e-checks are the only acceptable forms of payment. See
payment options
.
Document Request Form (PDF)
Non-MD Verifications
Graduate Medical Education (GME)
For information on how to obtain post-graduate training verification by specialty, please visit the GME’s Credentials Verification page.
GME Credentials Verification
Employment Verification
To verify UCLA Health employment, please contact:
Human Resources
(310) 794-0683
Dentistry
To order a duplicate dentistry diploma (D.D.S.) or obtain other dental school/training verifications, please contact:
UCLA School of Dentistry | Student Affairs
(310) 825-8311
(310) 825-9789
Nursing
To order a duplicate nursing diploma or obtain other UCLA School of Nursing training verifications, please contact:
UCLA School of Nursing | Student Affairs
(310) 825-5654
Public Health
To order a duplicate public health diploma or obtain other training verifications from the UCLA Fielding School of Public Health, please contact:
UCLA Fielding School of Public Health | Student Affairs
(310) 825-5524
External Department Requests
For all other department requests, please visit the UCLA Department Directory below.
UCLA Department Directory
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login