Brand Guidelines | Identity | Imagery | Graphic Elements
Log In
Imagery
Graphic Elements
The Molecule
The Overlay Box
The Ribbon Treatment
Do Not
Downloads
The Molecule
The molecule is a unique design element used throughout the UCLA brand. Inspired by California sunshine and natural sunspots captured in photography, the UCLA molecule represents light and energy as well as a spirit of scientific inquiry and discovery. Molecules are most effective when used sparingly.
Molecules as lens flares
Transparent molecules can be used to form lens flares. Make sure to arrange molecules in one line across the image, not grouped heavily in clusters.
Molecules containing headlines
A large molecule may be used to hold a headline and short sub-headline. Set the type in a contrasting color to ensure legibility. This execution is effective in print pieces only.
Molecules containing factoids or quotes
A large molecule may be used to hold factoids and other small bits of information. An outlined molecule using a 1-point rule may be used on top of or interlaced with a solid molecule to add dimension. Again, be sure to use molecules in this way on print projects only.
Molecules as small graphic devices
Three molecules can be used as small graphic devices or accents for headlines.
Molecules as overlapping elements
A molecule may be used as an overlapping background element to draw the reader’s eye to a headline or section heading.
The Overlay Box
Another branding element in the UCLA design identity is the overlay box. This gives shape and form to our brand identity. Applied consistently, it can provide instant recognition to your work.
The Ribbon Treatment
Ribbon treatments bring emphasis to headlines. When using ribbon treatments over photos, try not to be too wordy. Short, punchy sentences are best because they do not distract from the image.
Do Not
Do not set blocks of copy within a molecule.
Do not justify copy within a molecule.
Do not make the molecule too dark.
Do not distort the molecule.
Do not use molecules at 100% opacity.
Do not use more than three molecules at a time for headline accents.
Do not put an image inside a molecule.
Downloads
Included in your download:
The molecule (EPS, PNG, SVG)
An example of molecules as lens flares (EPS and PNG)
Download Graphic Elements (ZIP 1 MB)
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility