Bruin Health Pharmacy | UCLA Student Health
Skip to Main Content
Search Website
Search
Search Website
Search
Bruin Health Pharmacy
A full range of prescription medications in addition to over 70 over-the-counter medications available to students and faculty and staff with qualifying insurance plans
Hours of Operation
Mondays, Tuesdays & Thursdays: 8am - 1pm, 2pm - 5pm
Wednesdays: 8am - 12:30pm, 2pm - 5pm
Fridays: 9am - 1pm, 2pm - 5pm
University Holidays
Bruin Health Pharmacy will observe all university holidays. For more information, visit the
UCLA academic calendar.
If You're Feeling Sick
If you are sick, please send a well family member or friend to pick up your medication for you.
You will need to contact Bruin Health Pharmacy at 310-825-5497, to authorize a proxy to pick up your medication.
How to Order Prescription Refills
Infographic Guide for Prescription Refills
Bruin Health UC Students/Staff Only
Electronic prescription through SureScripts
or Phone (310) 206-2146
About Us
Bruin Health Pharmacy is located on the A-Level of Ackerman Union, A-250, and is available to all registered students in addition to UCLA faculty & staff with qualifying HealthNet Blue & Gold and UC Care insurance plans. We offer a full range of prescription medications in addition to over 70 over-the-counter medications.
Your Student Health Pharmacy
Unlike other healthcare facilities, The Ashe Center serves only the UC community. All of our services are geared towards your needs as a UCLA student. As such, Bruin Health Pharmacy and our clinical staff are a unique team that is here to support you in all of your healthcare needs.
Our pharmacy staff offers counseling and advice to students and works directly with clinicians to ensure you are getting the medication and care you need. We have a thorough understanding of health insurance policies and can help you obtain coverage and approval for your medications.
Bruin Health Pharmacy sells over-the-counter (OTC) medications that are commonly used and commonly recommended by our clinicians such as cold and cough medications, pain relievers, eye, ear and nose drops, personal hygiene items, condoms, emergency contraception (Plan B), topical antibiotic creams, anti-itch creams and vitamins. Our OTC pricing is very low, almost at cost. The cost of all over-the-counter medications you purchase will be billed to your BruinBill account.
We Serve UC Faculty & Staff
We accept the following UCLA Faculty & Staff insurance: HealthNet Blue & Gold and UC Care. We are able to service active UCLA Faculty & Staff.
Set Up Text Notifications
To set up text notifications:
First time patients can call 310-825-5497
Or, go to Bruin Health Pharmacy to set up
Location
Ackerman A-Level
What to Bring
BruinCard
Scheduling
Appointments:
(310) 825-5497
Walk-ins welcome
Fees
Patients eligible to be seen are current students, past students of the most previous academic term, and other UC campus students.
UCSHIP
Currently registered UCLA students
Pharmacy
Brand Medications (Tier 1 & 2) $25-$40
Formulary Medications (Special Order) $40
Generic Medications $5
Some Birth Control $0
Waived UCSHIP
Currently registered UCLA students who have waived UCSHIP
Pharmacy
Brand Medications (Tier 1 & 2) Full Cost
Formulary Medications (Special Order) Full Cost
Generic Medications Full Cost
Some Birth Control Full Cost
Staff
Ara Simanian, PharmD
Pharmacist
Dario Chavez, PharmD
Pharmacist
Jason Javaherifar, PharmD
Pharmacy Manager
Shirley Ebrahimi, PharmD
Pharmacist
Bruin Health Pharmacy FAQs
Who can use Bruin Health Pharmacy?
Students enrolled at any UC campus and any UC faculty or staff member have access to Bruin Health Pharmacy services.
Where is Bruin Health Pharmacy located?
Bruin Health Pharmacy is located at 308 Westwood Plaza A-250 located in Ackerman Union, A-Level. You can access Bruin Health Pharmacy via the main stairway at Ackerman Union.
Can someone else check-in/ pick up prescriptions for me?
Yes. You may designate another individual, a PROXY, to pick up your prescription. Please notify the pharmacy in advance. Your PROXY must have their own photo ID, be over 18-years-old, and know your ID number.
What forms of payment are accepted?
For students, all charges will be applied to your Bruin Bill account within 7 to 10 business days. For faculty and staff members, we accept all major credit cards as well as Apple, Google, and Samsung Pay.
I just had an appointment. Is my prescription ready?
Please allow one hour for Bruin Health Pharmacy to process your prescription(s). If you have opted-in for text messages with Bruin Health Pharmacy, you will be notified once your prescription is ready.
Do you accept any returns on prescriptions?
No, once a medication leaves the Pharmacy it cannot be returned or exchanged.
What types of insurance plans are accepted?
For UC students, we accept UC SHIP and for UC staff or faculty, we accept UC Care and Health Net Blue & Gold.
Can I pick up more than a 30-day supply of medication?
Yes, depending on your insurance coverage period, and the original written quantity of the prescription.
How do I know if I have refills remaining on my medications?
The lower left hand corner of your prescription label will indicate the balance remaining on your prescription.
How do I request prescription refills?
Go to
www.studenthealth.ucla.edu
, log in to the Patient Portal, click on ‘Messages,’ click on ‘New Message,’ then fill out your request. You may also make a refill request in-person or over the phone.
Can I refill a prescription from another pharmacy at Bruin Health Pharmacy?
Yes. We may transfer your prescription into Bruin Health Pharmacy. Provide us with the pharmacy name, phone number, medication name, and prescription number (if available). Transfers may take up to two business days to complete.
What is your refill policy?
Please allow 1 to 2 business days for refills to be completed. Non-controlled substance refills are generally available 23 days after the previous fill; controlled substance refills are generally available 27 days after the previous fill.
Contact Ashe Center
221 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-4073
Fax: (310) 206-8012
Contact
Stay in the know
Facebook @uclastudenthealth
Instagram @uclaashecenter
LinkedIn @ucla-ashe-student-health-center
Sydney Health Mobile App