Funding Opportunities | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Funding Opportunities
Funding when you need it
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA has a proud tradition of producing world-renowned physician-scientists. Not only will you be given outstanding opportunities to contribute to scientific discovery, but you will also be exposed to our world-renowned faculty whose ever-evolving innovations and groundbreaking research inform scientific and medical thought around the globe. Utilize the resources listed here to help fund, start, or continue your work.
UCLA funding search tools
BioFund: Non-NIH Funding Database
An extensive collection of non-NIH peer-reviewed funding opportunities searchable by keyword for faculty and trainees to pursue peer-reviewed funding. Customized searches are available based on research focus and desired funding, allowing planning for application deadlines up to a year in advance. The database is updated at least once per year. Please use the ‘contact us’ feature to engage in feedback and/or to add/edit content.
BioFund: Non-NIH Funding Database
DGSOM Seed Grant Program
Applications from both individual faculty and research teams are encouraged via a centralized mechanism that has been established for the submission of Letters of Intent (LOIs) and full applications. Submitted LOIs and applications will be reviewed by committees assembled by each of the Research Themes.
DGSOM Seed Grant Program
John H. Walsh Young Investigator Research Prize
Department chairs, division chiefs, and research unit directors are encouraged to publicize and promote nominations for the John H. Walsh Young Investigator Research Prize award. Nominations must be made by UCLA faculty members. This prize is offered every three years.
John H. Walsh Young Investigator Research Prize
UCLA Innovation Fund
In order to advance therapeutics, medical devices/diagnostics, and digital health technologies across campus, the Technology Development Group (TDG), UCLA Health / David Geffen School of Medicine (DGSOM), UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering & Applied Science and the College's Divisions of Life Sciences and Physical Sciences are collaborating to present the UCLA Fund for Innovation. This opportunity is open to UCLA faculty from all schools who have signed the UCLA Patent Policy.
UCLA Innovation Fund
UCLA VCR - Vice Chancellor for Research
Information on resources for the following:
Limited Submission Opportunity
External Funding Opportunity Databases
UCLA Funding Opportunity Newsletters
Transdisciplinary Seed Grants
UCLA VCR - Vice Chancellor for Research
Clinical and Translational Science Institute
Our mission is to accelerate discoveries toward better health. Here you can find :
Funding Opportunities
Grant Writing Tips
Regulatory Requirements
Grant Submission Services
Clinical Data Requests
Biostatistical Support
Clinical and Translational Science Institute
Corporate, Foundation, and Research Relations
Our focus is to strengthen faculty relationships with private institutional funders. We can offer:
Prospect research on foundations and corporations
Proposal editing and strategy advice specific to private funders
Faculty training on building funder relationships
Assistance in arranging cultivation and stewardship visits to campus
Corporate, Foundation and Research Relations
Additional funding search tools
Grants.gov
Grants.gov
provides central access to more than 1,000 different grant programs across all 26 federal grant-making agencies that award more than $500 billion annually.
Learn more
Spin
Spin
is the world's largest database of sponsored funding opportunities. Spin has the ability to conduct customized searches based on an investigator’s profile, save searches, and create funding alerts.
Learn more
K Kiosk
The NIH
K Kiosk
lists career development awards for investigators with research doctorates or health-professional doctorate degrees (e.g., medical, dental, nursing).
Learn more
Active NIH RFAs
The
Active NIH RFAs
lists all active requests for applications; funding opportunities and notice search results.
Learn more
Grant submission support
Grants Submission Unit
The
Grants Submission Unit
(GSU) supports the grant application process, with particular emphasis on large and complex grants. Tools and services may include the provision of grant writing outlines and detailed checklists of required components, project management and multi-site coordination, review and editing of grant narrative for consistency, clarity and responsiveness to the FOA.
In the cases of large proposals that advance the goals of CTSI, GSU provides hands-on management of the grant-writing process, including collecting biosketches, drafting and soliciting letters of support, and compiling resources and other boilerplate text.
Learn more
Online library of successful grants
UCLA CTSI maintains a library of successful Award applications. Sample application types include: F32, K01, K08, K23, K24, K99/R00, R01 and U54 Applications plus NIH Biosketches (2015 version).
Learn more
Boilerplate text
The
UCLA CTSI boilerplates
page provides support for grant submission by offering boilerplate text for the Facilities and Resources sections of NIH grant applications.
Learn More
Find boilerplate text for the following:
CTSI and CTSI partner institutions
CTSI Clinical and Translational Research Centers
CTSI program areas
CTSI-supported collaborations and initiatives
Incubators, licensing and entrepreneurship
CTSA Consortia
Mobile health institutes and centers
Regulatory
Research cores
Research tools
UCLA administrative units
UCLA hospitals and health system
UCLA schools, departments, institutes and centers
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login