Archival Studies | UCLA Film & Television Archive
Jump to Navigation
Skip to main content
Tickets
Catalog
Directions
Visit
Search form
Search
You are here
Mobile Navigation
Archive Research and Study Center
Archival Studies
UCLA Library
UCLA School of TFT
Archive Research and Study Center
Archival Studies
UCLA Library
UCLA School of TFT
Archival Studies
Below is a list of academic and professional programs for audiovisual media archiving (this list is not comprehensive).
North America
UCLA Graduate School of Education & Information Studies (M.L.I.S.)
Los Angeles, CA
UCLA offers a Master of Library & Information Science (M.L.I.S.) degree program with various areas of specialization that include Media Archival Studies. For inquiries about admissions or student services, please contact the GSE&IS Office of Student Services at (310) 825-8326.
New York University | Moving Image Archiving and Preservation (M.A.)
New York, NY
The Master of Arts degree program in Moving Image Archiving and Preservation is a two-year, interdisciplinary course of study that trains future professionals to manage and preserve collections of film, video, digital, and multimedia works. MIAP is situated within New York University’s Department of Cinema Studies, part of the Kanbar Institute of Film & Television in the acclaimed Tisch School of the Arts.
The L. Jeffrey Selznick School of Film Preservation (M.A. or Certificate)
Rochester, NY
The L. Jeffrey Selznick School of Film Preservation offers a one-year certificate course and a two-year M.A. program in partnership with the University of Rochester. Students of the Selznick School learn the arts and sciences of film and media preservation at the Eastman Museum.
Ryerson University | Film and Photography Preservation and Collections Management (M.A.)
Toronto, Canada
Ryerson’s F+PPCM program provides a rigorous and intensive professional education of applied and theoretical courses in the history, technology and intellectual organization of image and audiovisual collections. The two-year course of study includes an internship and a second-year residency in a growing list of international partner museums and institutions.
Europe
University of Amsterdam | Preservation and Presentation of the Moving Image (M.A.)
Amsterdam, The Netherlands
Preservation and Presentation of the Moving Image is an accredited degree programme of the dual M.A. in Media Studies. Upon successful completion of the programme, graduates receive a legally accredited M.A. degree in Media Studies, and the title of Master of Arts (M.A.).
Staatliche Akademie der Bildenden Künste Stuttgart | Conservation of New Media and Digital Information (B.A. and M.A.)
Stuttgart, Germany
Students can learn the possibilities of long-term preservation of analogue and digital photographs, video recordings and digital archival cultural heritage in a B.A. program (launching in 2021) or a two-year, graduate M.A. program.
Hochschule für Technik und Wirtschaft Berlin  |  Conservation and Restoration (M.A.)
Berlin, Germany
Asia
Tainan National University of the Arts | Graduate Institute of Studies in Documentary and Film Archiving (M.A.)
Tainan City, Taiwan
Two-year graduate program with emphasis on film archiving and preservation, and the role of documentary as an audio and visual file offering historical perspectives.
Australia
Charles Sturt University  |  Audiovisual Archiving (Certificate)
Online
Designed and delivered in partnership with the National Film and Sound Archive of Australia, this degree focuses on the acquisition, collection, maintenance and preservation of audiovisual materials in analogue and virtual environments.
Tickets
Catalog
Directions
Visit
Search form
Search
To report problems, broken links, or comment on the website, please
contact support
Copyright © 2024 UCLA Film & Television Archive. All Rights Reserved
Login