Media Loans | UCLA Film & Television Archive
Jump to Navigation
Skip to main content
Tickets
Catalog
Directions
Visit
Search form
Search
You are here
Mobile Navigation
Explore
Watch and Listen Online
Donating Materials
Media Licensing
Media Loans
Upcoming and Past Loans
Explore
Watch and Listen Online
Donating Materials
Media Licensing
Media Loans
Upcoming and Past Loans
Media Loans
Woman on the Run
(1950)
While UCLA Film & Television Archive does not maintain a rental film library, we are happy to loan prints from our motion picture collection for occasional public screenings by qualified organizations, subject to print availability and certain terms and conditions.
Requests
Download the
Moving Image Loan Application (PDF)
. Print loan requests should be submitted by email a minimum of 30 days in advance of the desired playdate. Requests should be addressed to:
movies@cinema.ucla.edu
General information
Print loans will be restricted to films from the Archive's preservation collection, or films for which the Archive holds at least two prints in equally good condition. Most films are available in 35mm only.
Archive prints will only be loaned to organizations that use a conventional two projector (changeover) system.  Prints will not be loaned to organizations that use a platter projection system, or that build up prints onto larger reels in order to reduce the number of changeovers required.
In order to minimize wear and tear on our archival prints, films may generally be screened no more than three times on any loan.  Requests for additional screenings will be considered on a case-by-case basis.
Organizations that have not previously borrowed prints from the Archive may be asked to submit contact information for sources from which they have previously borrowed films or letters of reference attesting to their ability to handle archival prints responsibly.
Our ability to approve loan requests is limited by the number of prints our inspection and shipping staff can handle during a given period of time. Borrowers may be asked to reschedule a film for a later date, when a print is available or we are better able to accommodate their request. Or borrowers may be referred elsewhere if the same film is available in a print of comparable quality from a commercial distributor.
Fees, shipping and insurance
In order to recover a portion of our costs to maintain a circulating film collection, UCLA Film & Television Archive charges a loan service fee that varies depending on such factors as film length and the number of films and screenings requested. Potential borrowers will be told the amount of the fee at the time they make their request. Payment of the loan fee is expected in advance. The Archive's loan service fee is in addition to any film rental required by the rights holder or authorized distributor.
The borrower is solely responsible for all
shipping and insurance charges
. All borrowers outside the Los Angeles area will be asked to furnish a Federal Express account number. Requests to substitute another shipper will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Shipment to and from locations outside Southern California must be by air, not ground.
Prints must be returned to the Archive,
prepaid and insured for $600 per reel
, immediately after the final screening date unless the Archive requests transshipment to another borrower. Responsibility for payment of transshipping charges and insurance is to be determined by mutual agreement between the borrowers.
Print safety
The borrower is responsible for inspecting prints after delivery and notifying the Archive of any damage discovered before projection. Otherwise, the Archive will assume that any damage discovered after the prints have been returned is the fault of the borrower.
Head and tail leaders may not be removed from any Archive print. Discovery that head and tail leaders have been previously removed should be reported as the borrower would report any other damage.
The borrower accepts full responsibility for the safety and security of the print from the time it is shipped or received from a previous borrower until the time it is returned to the Archive or transshipped to another destination.
The borrower must return or transship prints tails out on the reels on which they were received. Reel ends must be securely fastened with strong new tape.
Late return of prints will be grounds to refuse future loan requests.
The borrower will be expected to reimburse the Archive for lost prints and any form of damage including, but not limited to, heavy scratches, torn perforations, unauthorized cuts and splices, and breaks caused by the borrower during handling, projection, rewinding, or as a result of careless packaging and shipping, up to the full replacement cost of the print.
In order to safeguard the integrity of its motion picture collection, the Archive reserves the right to suspend or terminate borrowing privileges to any organization for any reason, including, but not limited to, undue or repeated print damage, unauthorized use or duplication of borrowed prints, or lack of adequate onsite security.
Clearances
UCLA Film & Television Archive is a member of
FIAF
, the International Federation of Film Archives. Organizations that operate in cities or countries that fall under the jurisdiction of another FIAF archive will be asked to secure a letter of assent from that archive before their request can be approved.
In addition, rights to many Archive films are controlled by outside individuals or commercial distributors. Borrowers will be advised of any required clearances at the time a loan is approved. Prints cannot be shipped until all proper clearances have been received.
Tickets
Catalog
Directions
Visit
Search form
Search
To report problems, broken links, or comment on the website, please
contact support
Copyright © 2024 UCLA Film & Television Archive. All Rights Reserved
Login