About – UCLA-DOE Institute
About
Mission
The UCLA-DOE Institute for Genomics and Proteomics brings frontier research efforts to bear on key scientific mission areas for the U.S. Department of Energy.  Over its history, the IGP has led many scientific developments, with discoveries and technological innovations impacting the DOE, the U.S. National Laboratories, and the broader scientific community.
8
Faculty
25
Post docs, graduate students, and researchers
50
Undergraduate students
150
+
Combined years of experience
The Institute for Genomics and Proteomics
The IGP comprises 8 leading faculty members and their laboratories, assembled for their world-leading expertise in diverse but connected the areas.
The Institute’s mid-range operational size makes it possible for scientific investigators to form small collaborative teams with complementary expertise, while remaining agile enough to move in new directions dictated by novel discoveries and evolving scientific needs.
Technology development and dissemination form central pillars of the IGP.  The IGP is at the leading edge of methods developments in computational and experimental genomics, macromolecular structure and imaging, metabolic engineering, and macromolecular design.  The IGP fosters and spreads technology innovation through support of a set of core facilities: X-ray and EM Structure Determination, Biocomputing, Protein Expression, and Macromolecular NMR.
Problem solving is our foundation
Innovation is our focus
The current research goals of the UCLA-DOE Institute are being carried out through teams focusing on major scientific challenges in two areas: Microbial Systems: Energy and Biomass and Atomic Structure and Enabling Capabilities.
Mail Address
611 Charles Young Drive East
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Campus Office Address
201 Boyer Hall Box 951570
Mail Code 157005
Phone: (310) 825-3754
Fax: (310) 206-3914
Biological and Environmental Research (DOE-BER)
© 1997-2021 The Regents of the University of California -
Enfold WordPress Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top