Services – UCLA-DOE Institute
Services
Our Services
The IGP has a long history of providing online services to crystallographers, protein scientists, and microbiologists. This is a list of our most recent and widely used tools.
145
,
000
Verify3D jobs in a typical year
160
,
000
ERRAT jobs in a typical year
650
,
000
Number of structures validated
8
,
000
,
000
Number of jobs on our cluster in a year
FAES: Factors of Atomic Electron Scattering
A computational tool which (a) enables Gaussian parameterization of elastic electron scattering factors
Diffraction Anisotropy Server
Ellipsoidal Truncation and Anisotropic Scaling
Twin detection with improved robustness
This twin statistic is based on local intensity differences making it less sensitive to phenomena that tend to confound traditional intensity statistics, such as anisotropic diffraction and pseudo-centering.
Self Rotation Function Server
.
Self Rotation Function from ScalePack or MTZ File
NIST*LATTICE Computations
Various computations on lattices using NIST*LATTICE, “A Program to Analyze Lattice Relationships”
CRYST/XdVal
Searches the Protein Data Bank for entries that have a unit cell similar to the input file,  computes Mathew’s Coeff, and lists the matches.
Xtrip
Synchrotron Trip Crystal Logging
X-ray Data Analysis
Computational resources for X-ray diffraction data analysis and investigations.
Structure Validation and Analysis
Computational resources for validating and investigating protein structures.
SAVES
Protein Structure Analysis and Verification Server
ERRAT
ERRAT is a program for verifying protein structures determined by crystallography.
Verify 3D
Determines the compatibility of an atomic model (3D) with its own amino acid sequence (1D)
PDBU
pdbU • Universal PDB Query Machine • General PDB Parameter and Cell Parameter Search
Amyloid Atlas
A searchable database of illustrations of Amyloid Fibril structures deposited in the Protein Data Bank
Algal Functional Genomics
Biologically interpret and visualize gene lists using integrated annotation and expression data
MCPDB - Bacterial Microcompartment Database
MCPdb is an online resource for viewing and exploring bacterial microcompartment (MCP) proteins and other large proteinacious assemblies like encapsulins. The MCPdb utilizes existing structural information to make learning about MCPs accessible to expert and novice learners alike
SER: Surface Entropy Reduction
The aim of this tool is to suggest mutation candidates that are likely to enhance a protein’s crystallizability via the generation of crystal contacts by the Surface Entropy Reduction (SER) approach
ZipperDB
This database contains predictions of fibril-forming segments within proteins identified by the 3D Profile Method. Enter a protein name or identifier, or a protein or peptide sequence to retrieve a fibrillogenic propensity profile.
LARKSdb
LARKS are adhesive segments, often found in low-complexity regions of proteins, and first described in Hughes et al., 2018. This database contains predictions of LARKS-forming segments within proteins identified by the 3D Profile Method. Enter a protein name or identifier, or a protein or peptide sequence to retrieve a fibrillogenic propensity profile.
Diffusion Accessibility Server
Calculate diffusion accessibility as a problem in steady-state diffusion, and solve the resulting (Poisson) equations on a 3D grid. This website performs that calculation on an uploaded PDB file. and returns a pdb file containing a normalized value of the diffusion accessibility for each atom in the temperature factor (B factor) column.
Other Tools and Databases
More tools for understanding your data
Mail Address
611 Charles Young Drive East
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Campus Office Address
201 Boyer Hall Box 951570
Mail Code 157005
Phone: (310) 825-3754
Fax: (310) 206-3914
Biological and Environmental Research (DOE-BER)
© 1997-2021 The Regents of the University of California -
Enfold WordPress Theme by Kriesi
Scroll to top