Dean's Certification | UCLA Dean of Students
Skip to Main Content
Search Website
Search
Search Website
Search
Dean's Certification
A letter of clearance (Dean's Certification) is verification that you, as a UCLA student, have not violated any University policies or been subject to any disciplinary actions or proceedings. These letters are usually required by graduate and professional schools, state bar associations, government agencies, or independent agencies when applying for admission or employment. Most of these institutions will provide you with a form for you to fill out and the Office of the Dean of Students to complete. Our office will fill out the form, or attach our own letter of clearance when applicable.
Dean's Certifications may be requested in-person, by mail (1104 Murphy Hall, Box 951415, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1415), fax (310-825-8616), or email (
dean@saonet.ucla.edu
), or the online form (link below).
If ordering
in-person
, you may stop by the office at 1104 Murphy Hall and fill out our Dean's Certification request form. Please bring any accompanying forms from the institutions for which you are requesting Dean's Certification.
If ordering by
mail, fax, or email
, please include a letter from you which includes:
Your full name while attending UCLA
University ID number (or date of birth if you do not remember your UID)
Phone number and email address
Name(s) and address(es) of the Institutions who should be sent Dean's Certification
Indicate if Dean's Certification should be mailed, faxed, or held for in-person pickup.
Your letter should also include the statement: "I authorize the Office of the Dean of Students at the University of California, Los Angeles to release the information necessary to complete the aforementioned college questionnaire(s)."
The letter MUST be signed and dated. Any Dean's Certification requests without the above statement accompanied by your signature will not be processed and completed.
Dean’s Certifications are subject to update should your conduct status with the Office of the Dean of Students change within 90 days of your original request. An updated Certification may be resubmitted to the provided institution/program names.
It will take approximately 7-14 business days to complete the Certification forms and get them in to the US mail or sent by fax. If you would like to pick them up, be sure to indicate that on your request and we will hold them for you.
The Office of the Dean of Students charges for Dean Certification forms. The fee for Dean's Certification is $5.00 for each copy sent (additional requests made at the same time will be charged $5.00 each after the initial $5.00 fee).
This fee will be charged to your BruinBill account, accessed through the URSA website. Even if you are no longer at the university, you still have access to your BruinBill account. Any unpaid charges will result in a hold on your records and registration.
If you have any questions about this process, you may call (310) 825-3871 or during normal business hours, Monday through Friday from 9:00am to 5:00pm.
Dean's Certification Request Form