Frequently Asked Questions | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Frequently Asked Questions
01.
What are
shifts
like?
— Ronald Reagan Medical Center
Mix 8/9/12hr shifts
12hr weekend shifts
Main ED:
Sr (R3/R4) + Jr (R2) + Interns
Fast Track:
R2/R3/R4
8hr Fast Track Shifts
Scribes for seniors and in Fast Track Dictation Software Available
— Olive View Medical Center
Mix 8/9/12hr shifts
12hr weekend shifts
8hr weekday overnights
Combined
Main/Fast Track ED
Most residents stay 30 minutes after shift to wrap up
Majority of shifts overlap to allow wrap up and chart completion
Trauma
— Ronald Reagan
Level I Trauma Center
EM senior is team leader
Procedures alternate by day of work between EM and Trauma
Airway always belongs to EM
— Olive View
Not designated Trauma Center
Still gets trauma walk-ins/drop-offs!
EM residents in charge of resuscitation
— Antelope Valley
Level II Trauma Center
EM resident is only trainee present and participates in all procedures
02.
What are some resident
benefits
?
03.
Where do residents
live
?
Residents live in a variety of places!
Westwood
Brentwood
Santa Monica
Venice
Culver City
West Hollywood
San Fernando Valley
East LA
On a boat!
UCLA housing also available!
04.
What do
grads
do?
Alumni hold leadership positions in EM groups across the country and are part of academic faculty in a wide variety of institutions!
05.
What are some
electives
residents do?
With
20 weeks of elective
, residents have ample time and opportunity to get creative with their electives!
Unique electives recently done:
Medical writing for a TV news station
Aerospace Medicine
Tech & Entrepreneurship in Medicine Informatics
If the resident sets up an elective with educational value the leadership is willing to support it while still providing salary!
06.
How do residents receive
mentorship
?
Each class has an Assistant/Associate Program Director who is assigned to them for all 4 years and meets with each resident formally on a semi-annual basis to track progress and discuss goals
Residents are matched with personal faculty mentor to meet with regularly to discuss career or personal issues
Sibling families are made up of 4 residents (one per class) to provide peer mentorship and advice
The program hosts a Career Day each year for graduating R4s to give advice on how to prepare for the job search and life after residency. Many of our program's alumni from various practice types around the region attend and give their perspectives on the difference settings and locations in which EM is practiced.
07.
What
changes
has the residency made recently?
Teaching/supervising role expanded for longitudinal R4 experience
Majority of shifts now 9hr with 8hr overnights, with 12hr shifts on weekends
Quality improvement and Administrative as a longitudinal experience for R4 seniors
Added SICU and Ortho/Sports Med experience to R2 year
08.
What type of
activities
are residents involved in?
Committees
Residency committees are run entirely by the residents based on individual interests. Current committees include:
Recruitment
Social media
Wellness
Community outreach
Medical education
Hospital-wide committees that residents can get involved in include ethics and GME committees
Organized Medicine
Residents are involved in and members of ACEP, CalACEP, EMRA, AAEM/RSA, California Medical Association, AMA, and local advocacy groups such as SCOPHE.
Extracurricular Medicine Activities
Several of our residents have been involved in Event Medicine activities including Rock Medicine (music festival), AIDS Lifestyle support, and Painted Turtle Camp
09.
How does the residency address
diversity
?
The UCLA Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA has an office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (EDI) with a robust amount of programming for students, trainees, faculty, and staff. Please refer to
https://medschool.ucla.edu/diversityaffairs
to see a full listing of information and events!
In 2019 the Department of Emergency Medicine Residency Program chartered an EDI Committee. The mission of the EDI committee is to foster diversity and inclusion for the recruitment and retention of our residents, fellows, and faculty to reflect the rich diversity of Los Angeles and promote long term population health equity. Please refer to the subheading "Diversity" on our website for more information!
10.
How does the residency address
wellness
?
Residency Wellness Committee plans and organizes near-monthly residency wide events that will now also include nursing/ancillary staff and scribes! Some previous activities include hiking, magic shows, and comedy shows.
The residency hosts 2 retreats each year and allow residents to request special days off in order to help them be present at important events in their lives outside of residency.
UCLA Behavioral Health Center is available for residents to seek help and support with 24/7 services provided including psychiatric consultation and short-term psychotherapy
UCLA Physician and Faculty Wellness Program provides lectures and workshops related to burnout, stress, health, and wellness as well as a drop-in center.
Residents are able to get discounted rates to join UCLA gyms and fitness centers.
View the FAQs as an Infographic
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health