Life as a Resident | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Life as a Resident
Weather
While some say that the only weather in residency that matters is "70 degrees and fluorescent", our residents find time to enjoy life outside the hospital. With plenty of sunshine and an average temperature in the 70's, LA boasts warm, comfortable beach weather all year long. It's often said that LA is one of the few places where one can go skiing in the morning and surfing in the same afternoon, and during the winter season, residents often make trips to
Mammoth Mountain
or
Big Bear
resorts for snowboarding and skiing.
Some of our residents, scribes, and nurses rollerblading and enjoying the sun at Santa Monica Pier.
Food & Dining
LA is considered by many to be a food mecca. There are cozy mom-and-pop eateries in addition to restaurants owned by renowned chefs. Many residents spend their days off indulging in foodie adventures and experiencing the thousands of unique dining options LA has to offer. The diversity in ethnicity of foods ensures that everyone can find something they love. Unique food festivals, such as
Smorgasburg
and
626 Night Market
, are also delicious events to look forward to.
Drs. Jake Wilson (class of 2016) and Noah Sugerman (class of 2018), indulging in Korean BBQ in Koreatown.
Entertainment
Often referred to as "the entertainment capital of the world", LA has a huge range of activities to offer. Catch concerts, Broadway musicals, and plays at venues such as the Hollywood Bowl, Pantages Theatre, and Geffen Playhouse. Museums, such as the Getty Center and the Los Angeles County Museum of Art, have exciting and innovative exhibits all year round. There are also numerous movie and independent film theatres scattered all through Los Angeles with opportunities to attend special events such as movie premieres. Family-friendly theme parks, such as Disneyland and Knott's Berry Farm, are also nearby.
Dr. Matt Rosen (Class of 2019) hanging out with Mickey in Disneyland.
Sports
As home to the Los Angeles Lakers and Los Angeles Clippers, LA offers plenty of opportunities to attend NBA basketball games. Baseball enthusiasts will have the Dodgers and Angels close by as well. The Rams have also returned to LA starting in the 2016 NFL Season. LA also offers professional soccer and hockey teams. For those who are fans of collegiate sports, UCLA and USC basketball and football are popular local favorites.
Dr. Adam Gruner (Class of 2019) at a UCLA football game at the Rose Bowl.
Outdoor Activities
Los Angeles is known for its many beaches and popular beach activities include surfing, volleyball, and yoga. There are also plenty of hiking trails in the area, some favorites being trails along Malibu Beach, Runyon Canyon, or up to the Hollywood sign. On the weekends, farmers markets and flea markets are popular spots to visit. Catalina Island is also a nearby attraction. In the past, resident classes have chosen to take bonding trips to the island for fishing, hiking, kayaking, and other excursions.
Drs. Stephanie Brenman (class of 2017), Caleb Canders (class of 2016), and David Morales (class of 2018), and nurses hiking on a trailhead off of Malibu Beach!
Residents hanging out and making s'mores with our Olive View Department Chair, Dr. Greg Moran, at his beach house!
Drs. Brandon Endo and Adam Evans, on a charter fishing trip with our Olive-View attending, Dr. Matt Waxman!
Drs. Alex Dyer and Jake Wilson, spending some time at Big Bear Ski Resort, less than 2 hours away!
Previous
Next
Skip to main content
Click to view these pages to read more about Graduate Medical Education benefits, institutional GME programs, virtual campus tours and more.
Graduate Medical Education – DGSOM at UCLA
Go to website
Chase Breakthroughs - Medical Training
Go to website
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health