Other Clinical Opportunities | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Other Clinical Opportunities
Being part of University of California, Los Angeles and the UCLA Health system offers our residents unique access to an abundance of opportunities to pursue a wide breadth of interests within Emergency Medicine.
Center for Prehospital Care
Contacts: Dr. Steven Rottman (Medical Director), Professor Emeritus of Emergency Medicine at UCLA, and Dr. Atilla Uner (Associate Medical Director), Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine at UCLA.
Website:
https://www.cpc.mednet.ucla.edu/
For over 25 years, the UCLA Center for Prehospital Care has the leading academic center on the West Coast for the study and improvement of prehospital care. The center has an international reputation for both the quality of its faculty and graduates, as well as high-quality and practice-changing research. Born out of an agreement between the UCLA Emergency Medicine Center and the Los Angeles Department of Community Safety's Emergency Medical Services, this academic hub has grown to become one of the largest educators of pre-hospital personnel in Southern California. The Center trains thousands of paramedics, EMTs, lifeguards, police officers, campus security officers, parking enforcement officers, dispatchers, and other first responders every year and routinely hosts continuing education programs on new and evolving issues within prehospital care.
Numerous residency alumni have pursued advanced fellowships in EMS/prehospital care and taken leadership positions across the country. Read more about Dr. Clayton Kazan (EM Class of 2005) who was
recently instated as the Medical Director for the Los Angeles County Fire Department
.
Dr. Ashely Sanello (EM Class of 2016, EMS Fellow @ Harbor 2017) learning how to use the Jaws of Life for extrication.
Residents learning about pre-hospital care and tactical medicine with the LAPD.
Members of the Class of 2016 about to ride along with paramedics from LA County Fire.
Previous
Next
Center for Hyperbaric Medicine
Contact: Dr. Atilla Uner, Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine at UCLA, and Dr. Joanne Feldman, Assistant Clinical Professor of Emergency Medicine at UCLA.
Website:
https://www.uclahealth.org/hyperbaric/
UCLA Hyperbaric Medicine specializes in a host of medical conditions including the management of complex wounds, decompression sickness (DCS), and late radiation injuries. As one of two hyperbaric chambers in the greater Los Angeles Area and the near-coastal location of UCLA, our center routinely accepts regional transfers for numerous emergent conditions requiring hyperbaric treatment. The chamber operates 24 hours per day, seven days a week and offers a popular elective for residents to learn about hyperbaric treatment and dive emergencies.
UCLA Simulation Center
Contact: Dr. Amir Rouhani, Assistant Professor of Emergency Medicine and Internal Medicine at Olive View-UCLA Medical Center, and Dr. Steven Lai, Assistant Program Director at UCLA and Olive View-UCLA Medical Center.
Website:
https://www.sim.ucla.edu/
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA maintains a state-of-the-art, 9,000 square feet Simulation Center that is routinely utilized by our residency for resuscitation training, procedure labs, and skills sessions. UCLA was among the first institutions to integrate simulation technology and continually invests in the latest resources to remain a leader nationwide. Simulation and small group conferences is highlighted in our residency providing an immersive and high-fidelity experience for our residents. The Medical Simulation Elective remains one of the most popular electives for our residents, while our Medical Education and Simulation Fellowship offers Emergency Medicine graduates a chance to cultivate their skills to become a preeminent clinician educator and create an academic niche of their own.
Learn more
Previous
Next
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health