Chancellor’s Award for Postdoctoral Research | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Chancellor’s Award for Postdoctoral Research
The Chancellor’s Award for Postdoctoral Research was established in 1998 to recognize the important contributions that postdoctoral scholars make to UCLA’s research mission. Each year awardees receive a plaque and a stipend in the amount of $7,500.
Nominations for 2023 are no longer being accepted. Nominations for 2024 will be accepted in Fall 2024.  All faculty are encouraged to participate in the nominating process.
Each department or institute submission must include:
Department chair’s signed letter of submission
Signed nomination letter from the faculty mentor
Up to two signed supporting letters of recommendation
Research abstract
Research citation
Nominee’s resume or curriculum vitae
Publications
Chairs and unit directors are responsible for pre-screening the nominations to ensure that no more than two nominations are submitted to the final selection committee. Chairs are also encouraged to establish point person(s) that are responsible for the coordination of the collection of all nomination materials listed above. Departments or institutes with 35 or more scholars may nominate up to 3, and those with 60 or more scholars may nominate up to 4.
Deadline:
Submission deadlines for 2024 nominations will be announced in Fall 2024
Submission Location:
To be announced
Recognition:
The award recipients will be announced and honored at the UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars and Mentors Awards Ceremony
hosted by Roger Wakimoto, Vice Chancellor for Research and Susan Ettner, Dean of Graduate Education. All of the nominees and their mentors will be recognized at this event, as will the general postdoctoral scholar community.
Quick Links
Nomination Guidelines
Past Award Recipients
Postdoctoral Research Awards Ceremony Webcast
Excellence in Postdoctoral Scholar Mentoring Awards
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.