Connect | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Connect
UCLA Postdoctoral Scholar Mailing List
Administered by the Division of Graduate Education, UCLAPOSTDOC-L provides important, relevant information about changes in the postdoctoral scholar policy, upcoming events, and workshops. The mailing list is open to current and former UCLA postdoctoral scholars, staff, and faculty. It is the primary method by which the Division of Graduate Education communicates with postdoctoral scholars at UCLA. (The list is not an on-line forum, so users cannot post messages.)
UCLA Postdoc Blog
Written and administered by the Division of Graduate Education staff, the UCLA Postdoc Blog provides periodic advice on subjects like university policy and best practices for your appointment, how to navigate challenging situations, access to campus resources, and other subjects. The Division of Graduate Education periodically compiles these blog posts into a newsletter distributed using the UCLA Postdoctoral Scholar Mailing List (see above).
Postdoctoral Scholars Advisory Council
This council of administrators, faculty, and postdoctoral scholars meets quarterly to discuss important issues relevant to postdoctoral life at UCLA. Learn more about what they have been discussing.
Office of Postdoctoral Affairs For the Biomedical and Life Sciences, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
The
Biomed Postdoc Office
works to promote Postdoctoral Affairs for PhD trainees in the biosciences at UCLA.
Postdoctoral Association at UCLA
The PDA’s mission is to enhance the postdoctoral experience at UCLA by providing resources to aid postdoctoral scholars with their professional and personal development. PDA aims to provide information and support on a range of topics including career advancement, financial support, and childcare/family issues. PDA is also focused on communicating postdoctoral causes to the university administration. In addition, PDA facilitates social interaction between postdocs at UCLA, with the goal of building a community that can benefit from each others’ knowledge and experiences.
National Postdoc Appreciation Week
National Postdoc Appreciation Week (NPAW) is a nationwide celebration of postdoctoral scholars’ contributions to their communities. It is designated by the National Postdoctoral Association (see below) and occurs each September. For information about National Postdoc Appreciation Week activities at UCLA, please explore
here
.
National Postdoctoral Association
The NPA was established with the goal of fostering necessary improvements to the postdoctoral situation in the United States. NPA’s mission is to improve the postdoctoral experience by supporting enhanced research training and a culture of enhanced professional growth to benefit scholarship and innovation.
National Postdoctoral Association Affiliate Membership
As UCLA is a Sustaining Member of the NPA, postdoctoral scholars, faculty and administrators at UCLA are entitled to a
free affiliate NPA membership
.
BruinSafe Online
Stay up-to-date on current campus safety conditions and learn how to prepare for potential emergency situations.
UCLA Postdoctoral Scholar Data Dashboards
For general information about the UCLA postdoctoral scholar population, including the gender distribution, citizenship distribution, and trends regarding the length of postdoctoral scholar training, please feel free to explore these data dashboards.
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.