Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
If you have a doctoral degree and are interested in becoming a postdoctoral scholar, please use the links below to explore how to apply for a position and available funding and fellowship programs that may assist you.
Postdoctoral Scholar Eligibility
In order to qualify for appointment as a Postdoctoral Scholar, the individual must:
Provide evidence of completion of a doctoral degree received within the past ten years, and
Have no more than five years of cumulative postdoctoral research experience, including postdoctoral service at other institutions.
Applying for a Postdoctoral Scholar Position
To apply for a UCLA postdoctoral scholar positions, look for available opportunities at:
UCLA Career Center
Find opportunities with
Handshake
, a platform that connects postdoctoral scholars with professional resources and career development opportunities. Log in and Activate your Handshake account today to:
Connect with Employers
Make meaningful connections and build your professional network.
Access Professional Development Events
Register for the latest professional development events, info sessions, and networking opportunities that match your interests.
Explore Resources
Gain access to career-related resources curated specifically for postdoctoral scholars such as Versatile PhD.
Positions may also be posted on
UCLA Careers
or
UCLA Academic Recruit
.
Fellowship Programs
President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program
Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program
California Alliance (AGEP) Postdoctoral Fellowship Program
Questions?
All correspondence regarding any potential openings, the application for any such openings, and one’s status must be directed to the faculty member(s) in question. The faculty member and the department are solely responsible for determining if there is a match with the applicant and area of interest and for facilitating the appointment in regard to space and financial resource allocations.
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.