Alumni | CEE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Alumni
Alumni Advisory Board
The UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering (CEE) Alumni Advisory Board’s mission is to promote the communication, growth, and shared activities of the CEE alumni, faculty, and students.
The AAB members offer unique inputs to help the Department understand the needs of industry, insights into how well the department is meeting the CEE needs of the future, and knowledge of current trends in the CEE industry, including suggestions for keeping the curriculum and degree programs current. They also provide input to academics, research, outreach, advocacy, and development.
The members represent a cross-section of the alumni of the Department and the major areas of the CEE field.
The AAB meets annually, and is involved in several activities, including the annual Discover UCLA Engineering day, annual Graduate Student welcome day, Annual CEE Tailgate Party at the Rose Bowl, mentorship and support for the Department’s student groups, and the ABET Accreditation process every eight years.
For more information on the Alumni Advisory Board, please contact
Associate Professor Jiaqi Ma
, Faculty Liaison to the AAB, at
jiaqima@ucla.edu
or (310) 206-3212.
View the current C&EE
Alumni Advisory Board
.
Get Involved
Engineering Alumni Association
The UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science’s proudest assets are our more than 42,000 alumni. In Southern California and around the world, our alumni show tireless dedication to the school, community service and the profession of engineering.
The primary goal of UCLA Engineering Alumni Association (EAA) is to engage more alumni with the school in support of engineering education and research. The EAA also helps promote interaction between alumni and students via sponsoring hands-on student projects, and nominates and helps select the alumni honored at the annual Engineering Awards Dinner.
More Information on the
HSSEAS Alumni Website
.
Stay Connected
N
Update Your Information

Civil and Environmental Engineering News and Events

School of Engineering News
Networking Opportunities
UCLA Engineering Alumni on Social Media

UCLA Engineering Linkedin

UCLA Engineering Facebook

UCLA Engineering Twitter
UCLA Alumni Networks

Alumni Directory

UCLA Networks

Career Center
Continue Your Education
i
Civil Engineering Graduate Programs

Engineering MS Online Program
l
UCLA Extension Certificate Programs
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
YouTube
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA