Alumni News | CEE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Alumni Paul Lee featured in upcoming film “Cities of the Future”
Photograph courtesy of Paul Lee Paul Lee, UCLA Alumni (B.S. CEE), is featured in the film "Cities of the Future". The film is scheduled to come out in February 2024 and provides valuable...
Charting New Horizons: Civil and Environmental Engineering Alumni Huachen CUI’s Path from UCLA to a Faculty Role in Guangzhou’s
Dec 29, 2023
Photo from the The Hong Kong University of Science and Technology (Guangzhou) website Having completed his Ph.D. in Civil Engineering at UCLA and subsequently serving as a postdoctoral researcher, Prof. Cui has recently achieved a significant milestone by securing a...
Alumnus Christine Goulet Named Director of the USGS Earthquake Science Center
Oct 27, 2022
Photo courtesy of J. Stewart UCLA civil and environmental engineering alumnus Dr. Christine Goulet has been named Director of the USGS Earthquake Science Center. In this position, Goulet will lead wide-ranging research and implementation teams in the general area of...
UCLA Alumnus Leads New Sixth Street Bridge Project in LA
Aug 15, 2022
Photo from the UCLA Samueli website Civil and environmental engineering alumnus Julie Allen, B.S. ‘92 headed the conception and construction of the newly opened Sixth Street Bridge in Los Angeles. The bridge connects the Arts District with LA’s Eastside.  Allen served...
ASCE Awards UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Alumni
Jul 29, 2022
The American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Los Angeles Branch recognized two UCLA alumni during their annual awards night on July 28. Paul Lee, BS '15 was awarded the Outstanding Civil Engineer in Legislative Activities award. Lee is an Energy Policy Analyst at...
Civil and Environmental Engineering Alumnus Now a Full Professor at CSULB
Jul 13, 2022
Photo from the CSULB website Dr. Yu-Fu (Paul) Ko, who graduated from UCLA in 2006 under professor Jiann-Wen Woody Ju, has been promoted to full professor at the California State University, Long Beach (CSULB). Ko’s appointment in the Civil Engineering &...
Civil and Environmental Engineering Student Receives UCLA Outstanding Master’s Student Award
Apr 14, 2022
Camille H. Le, previously advised by civil and environmental engineering assistant professor Sanjay Mohanty, was recognized by the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering. Le was awarded the 2021 Edward K. Rice Outstanding Master’s Student award for her many achievements...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Alumni to Receive Awards from American Society of Civil Engineers
Mar 3, 2022
Photos courtesy of M. Armenta and S. Barua Seema Barua, BS ‘14, MS ‘15 and Maxwell Armenta, BS ‘17 will be receiving awards at the annual Region 9 California Infrastructure Symposium of the ASCE. The symposium will be held this coming April 22nd in San Francisco,...
UCLA Civil Engineering Alumnus Receives Editor’s Choice Award by Leading Geophysical Journal
Feb 1, 2022
Water Resources Research, a peer-reviewed scientific journal published by the American Geophysical Union, awarded Sarfaraz Alam, Ph.D. ’21, the 2020 Editor’s Choice Award. Alam, who is the lead author of the paper, has been featured by the publication previously. The...
UCLA Civil Engineering Alumnus Featured in Leading Geophysical Journal on Groundwater Storage Recovery
Nov 24, 2021
Sarfaraz Alam, Ph.D. '21 was recently featured in the Water Resources Research journal published by the American Geophysical Union (AGU). Entitled “Estimating Post-Drought Groundwater Storage Recovery in California’s Central Valley,” the piece highlighted a new study...
« Older Entries
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
YouTube
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA