Department Announcements | CEE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Professor Jonathan Stewart elected to National Academy of Engineering
Photo provided by UCLA Samueli Newsroom  Stewart, a professor of civil and environmental engineering at UCLA Samueli and co-director of UCLA’s Natural Hazards Risk and Resiliency Research...
Prof. Jiaqi Ma and Collaborators Lead UCLA Study: Electric Vehicles’ Impact on Air Quality Limited in Disadvantaged Communities
Jan 31, 2024
Originally posted on UCLA Newsroom and article below originally posted on UCLA Samueli. Although electric vehicle ownership is higher in wealthier neighborhoods than in disadvantaged ones, EVs improve air quality in all communities, a UCLA study found. But that’s not...
Jiaqi Ma Heads the New Mobility Center of Excellence at UCLA with $7.5 Million in Federal Funds
Oct 23, 2023
Original article appeared on the UCLA Samueli website The Federal Highway Administration — an agency within the U.S. Department of Transportation — announced Tuesday it has awarded a five-year, $7.5 million grant to establish the Center of Excellence on New Mobility...
CEE Professors Scott Brandenberg and Timu Gallien Receive California Climate Action Seed Grant
Sep 1, 2023
Original article on UCLA Samueli Sea Level Rise Impacts on Earthquake-Induced Soil Liquefaction Scott Brandenberg, a professor of civil and environmental engineering, will serve as the principal investigator on the project with a two-year, $520,000 grant. Timu...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Alumni and Faculty Awarded by ASCE
Aug 16, 2023
Photo courtesy of W. Goodin UCLA CEE alumni and faculty were honored at the annual American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE) Metropolitan Los Angeles Branch (MLAB) Awards Night at the Dorothy Chandler Pavilion last July 27th.  More than 200 people attended to...
CEE Department Welcomes Idil Akin and Fabian Rosner
Aug 14, 2023
Photos courtesy of I. Akin and F. Rosner Original article from UCLA Samueli The UCLA Samueli School of Engineering has appointed two new faculty members with sustainability-focused research backgrounds to its Civil and Environmental Engineering Department. They bring...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Graduate Student Awarded 2023 NWRI-SCSC Fellowship
Jul 21, 2023
Photo courtesy of J. Wu Jishan Wu, a Ph.D. student advised by professor Eric Hoek, has been selected to receive the 2023 National Water Research Institute (NWRI) - Southern California Salinity Coalition (SCSC) Fellowship. This $10,000 award is to support Wu’s research...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Welcomes New Assistant Professor Isabella Arzeno Soltero
Jul 17, 2023
Original article from UCLA Samueli Isabella Arzeno Soltero has joined the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering July 1 as an assistant professor of civil and environmental engineering. Her appointment is part of UCLA’s initiative to become a federally designated...
Regan Patterson Receives 2023 Chancellor’s Award for Community-Engaged Scholars
Jul 6, 2023
Original story from UCLA Newsroom Civil and environmental engineering assistant professor Regan Patterson is one of four professors that will be able to develop new UCLA classes that have an impact on Los Angeles and beyond, thanks to the fourth annual Chancellor’s...
UCLA Graduate Student Awarded 2023 AWWA Woodard & Curran Scholarship
Jun 16, 2023
Onja Davidson Raoelison, a Ph.D. student advised by civil and environmental engineering assistant professor Sanjay Mohanty, received the 2023 American Water Works Association (AWWA) Woodard & Curran Scholarship last June 13th. The scholarships were awarded during...
« Older Entries
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
YouTube
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA