In the News | CEE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Jamie Leonard, PhD Student, publication is highlighted in LA Times and ACS News
Photo courtesy of Professor Sanjay Mohanty Jamie Leonard, Graduate researcher under Dr. Sanjay Mohanty UCLA's SeaLab. With a focus on Microplastics in the LA River, Biofilters, and Pollution...
Professor Gaurav Sant featured in Forbes and LA Times
Apr 13, 2023
Professor Gaurav Sant, holding a joint appointment in the civil and environmental engineering and materials science and engineering departments at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, was featured in several leading news outlets recently. From the Forbes article,...
Incoming UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Professor Regan Patterson Featured on Resources Radio
Jun 23, 2022
Assistant professor Regan Patterson was recently featured on Resources for the Future's (RFF) Resources Radio, in the episode entitled, "Driving Toward Justice: Transportation and Equity." From the podcast: Patterson asks, "Transit is essential for those who keep our...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Student and Professor Featured on Spectrum News 1
Apr 29, 2022
Photo courtesy of O. Raoelison Ph.D. candidate Onja Davidson Raoelison and assistant professor Sanjay Mohanty were featured in a video and an article on Spectrum News 1 titled, “Researchers look at how biofilters can protect waterways” From the news story: Raoelison...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Professor Jennifer Jay Featured on Spectrum News 1
Apr 21, 2022
Professor and vice chair Jennifer Jay was featured in a video news story by Spectrum News titled, “Fight climate change through how and what you eat” From the news story:  “Pretty small changes can do, when you add it up across the population. It doesn’t have to be...
UCLA Professor and Institute of Carbon Management Director Gaurav Sant Featured on ABC 7
Mar 1, 2022
Civil and environmental engineering professor and ICM director Gaurav Sant is featured on a television segment on ABC 7. An accompanying article entitled "UCLA research project proposes removal of carbon dioxide from the ocean to help fight climate change" is also...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Professor Jennifer Jay Mentioned on Spectrum News
Feb 18, 2022
Professor and vice chair Jennifer Jay was quoted in an article by Spectrum News titled "'Climatarians' support the planet through food choices" From the article: While a few meals and crackers might seem insignificant in the fight against climate change, UCLA...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Professor Gaurav Sant Featured in the Daily Beast
Feb 17, 2022
Professor Gaurav Sant was recently mentioned in an article by the Daily Beast titled "How to Weaponize Our Dying Oceans Against Climate Change" From the article: Another proposal for using the ocean as a sponge for carbon involves inducing electrolysis (splitting...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Professor Michael Stenstrom Quoted in L.A. Daily News
Feb 17, 2022
Professor Michael Stenstrom was quoted recently in the L.A. Daily News article titled "Hyperion Sewage Spill Caused By Systems Failure, Human Error, Official Report Says" From the article: “It would have been better for (Hyperion) if that had happened,” said Michael...
Media Mention: ABC News, The Asociated Press, Yahoo, Daily Herald
Oct 12, 2021
C&EE Professors Jonathan Stewart and Eric Hoek responded to media inquiries about the oil spill in Orange County earlier this week. Their statements earned coverage in The Associated Press, which also got picked up by ABC, Yahoo, The Daily Herald, The Charlotte...
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
YouTube
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA