Research News | CEE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Team led by UCLA CEE Professor Yousef Bozorgnia Awarded $3 Million Research Grant By CEC
UCLA civil and environmental engineering professor and Natural Hazards Risk and Resiliency Research Center (NHR3) director Yousef Bozorgnia heads a research project that was just awarded a $3...
UCLA Graduate Student-Led Study Featured by JPL/NASA
May 18, 2023
Photo courtesy of I. Callejas A study entitled, “A GEE toolkit for water quality monitoring from 2002 to 2022 in support of SDG 14 and coral health in marine protected areas in Belize,” was featured on the Jet Propulsion Laboratory (JPL)/ National Aeronautics and...
Professor Mekonnen Gebremichael Leads Water Research in East Africa
Nov 14, 2022
Photo courtesy of H. Gunther Water management practices are a key topic of interest for Mekonnen Gebremichael, a professor of the civil and environmental engineering department at UCLA. Curious as to how these practices vary from country to country, principal...
Groundbreaking “Meta-bot” Created by UCLA Team Led by Civil and Environmental Engineering Professor Xiaoyu (Rayne) Zheng
Jun 17, 2022
Photo courtesy of UCLA Samueli School of Engineering A group of UCLA engineers, led by associate professor Xiaoyu (Rayne) Zheng, developed a new process that uses 3D printing to engineer robots in one step. The resulting metamaterials, or active materials with...
UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Ph.D. Student Published in Leading Journal
May 11, 2022
Photo courtesy of J. Stewart Timothy O'Donnell, a Ph.D. student advised by professor Jonathan Stewart,  was part of a Lebanon-US team that investigated the impacts of the 2020 Beirut explosion on infrastructure within Beirut.  Working with collaborators at the...
Study Led by UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering Student Featured by NASA
Apr 15, 2022
In their article “California Fire Led to Spike in Bacteria, Cloudiness in Coastal Waters,” the NASA Jet Propulsion Laboratory highlights a new study led by a UCLA civil and environmental engineering student.  The “eye-opening” study is led by Marisol Cira, a Ph.D....
C&EE Professor Scott Brandenberg Featured in Article on Levee Risk Assessment in the Delta
Oct 7, 2021
C&EE Professor Scott Brandenberg is featured in Robin Meadow's piece, Feature: First Field-based Assessment of Levee Risk in the Delta. In the article, Professor Brandenberg offers knowledge about the levee that surrounds Bacon Island in the central Sacramento-San...
Led by C&EE Professor Xiaoyu (Rayne) Zheng, UCLA Researchers Awarded NSF Grant
Sep 30, 2021
A team of engineers, led by C&EE Professor Xiaoyu (Rayne) Zheng, has received a $1.4 million grant from the National Science Foundation to design architected materials that are fine-tuned with dynamic behaviors. Read the full article: UCLA Researchers Awarded NSF...
C&EE PhD Student Studies Water Quality in Belize
Sep 7, 2021
During the COVID-19 pandemic, Ileana Callejas ’18, M.S. ’19 kept busy studying how the sudden drop in tourism was affecting the waters off the coast of Belize. Callejas is currently pursuing her Ph.D. in environmental engineering at the UCLA Samueli School of...
UCLA Engineers Earn Top Prize in Global Sustainability Innovation Competition
Jul 30, 2021
UCLA startup SeaChange earned the top prize on Wednesday at the 2021 Liveability Challenge for their work on using seawater as a medium for carbon removal. They were awarded S$1 million (US$735,000) from the competition, which had over 450 applicants from more than 60...
« Older Entries
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
YouTube
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA