Student Clubs & Associations | CEE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Student Club & Associations
UCLA Student Chapters
American Society of Civil Engineers (ASCE)
UCLA-ASCE consists of student members with a wide variety of backgrounds and academic levels, and often students from outside the major even join the group to take advantage of the many opportunities that ASCE membership can provide. The underlying goal of the student chapter’s leadership team is to foster an environment that not only promotes engineering skill and professional development, but also helps to build the foundation for strong and enduring friendships for years to come. Since being chartered in 1959, UCLA’s ASCE Student Chapter has grown into an active student-run organization that strives to promote the professional development of civil engineering students through curriculum-enriching activities.
California Geoprofessionals Association (CalGeo)
The main goal of “CalGeo Student Chapter at UCLA” is to promote Geotechnical Earthquake Engineering among students and develop a relationship between the students and the industrial engineers and organizations such as the “California Geoprofessionals Association” to bridge the gap between academia and industry in this field.
Chi Epsilon (XE)
Our chapter of Chi Epsilon is dedicated to providing activities that allow members to serve the community, build practical skills, and maintain academic and professional excellence. Some of our past events include hosting review sessions for the Fundamentals of Engineering (EIT/FE) Examination and volunteering with Habitat for Humanity and the Los Angeles Regional FoodBank.
Earthquake Engineering Research Institute (EERI)
The objective of EERI is to reduce earthquake risk by advancing the science and practice of earthquake engineering, by improving understanding of the impact of earthquakes on the physical, social, economic, political and cultural environment, and by advocating comprehensive and realistic measures for reducing the harmful effects of earthquakes.
Engineering Society of the University of California (ESUC)
We are the Engineering Society of the University of California (Los Angeles). It is the engineering student organization that houses all of the various Engineering and Technical societies at UCLA. The Engineering Society was founded in 1946 to fulfill these goals:
* Encourage development of professional engineering skills;
* Provide opportunities for students to practice working together effectively;
* Help engineering students to become aquainted with each other;
* Promote a spirit of congeniality among engineering students;
* Provide friendly contact with the faculty and the engineering profession.
Engineers without Borders (EWB)
Our mission is to partner with disadvantaged communities to improve their quality of life through implementation of environmental and economically sustainable engineering projects, while developing internationally responsible engineering students.  EWB-UCLA strives to uphold this vision; furthermore, we hope to encourage local community awareness of environmental/global issues through outreach and education programs.
Institute of Transportation Engineers (UCLA ITE)
UCLA ITE is a student branch of the professional associate for Institute of Transportation Engineers. We expose students to transportation engineering, which is an important contribution since our Department lacks permanent faculty in the transportation area. We organize info-sessions with professionals in the transportation industry and host field trips to enhance the understanding of the field. ITE provides opportunities for networking via conferences and field trips.
Tau Beta Pi (TBP)
Tau Beta Pi is the only engineering honor society representing the entire engineering profession. It is the nation’s second-oldest honor society, founded at Lehigh University in 1885 to mark in a fitting manner those who have conferred honor upon their Alma Mater by distinguished scholarship and exemplary character as students in engineering, or by their attainments as alumni in the field of engineering, and to foster a spirit of liberal culture in engineering colleges.
Student Advisory Board
The UCLA student advisory board consists of representatives from student organizations (ASCE, Chi Epsilon, CalGeo, Engineers Without Borders, Institute of Transportation Engineers). Student members regularly attend faculty meetings and focus group meetings to provide feedback to faculty regarding their educational needs or experiences. If you are a UCLA Civil and Environmental Engineering undergraduate student who is interested in joining the student advisory board, please contact Professor Brandenberg at sjbrandenberg@ucla.edu or (310) 825-9819.
Student Advisory Board Report:
2012
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
YouTube
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA