Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program
The Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (CPFP) offers postdoctoral research fellowships and faculty mentoring to outstanding scholars whose research, teaching, and service will contribute to diversity and equal opportunity at the University of California.
UCLA awards CPFP fellowships each year. The program is administered in parallel with the UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (PPFP).
To be considered for a CPFP fellowship, all interested candidates MUST first apply to PPFP
; applicants who identified potential mentors at UCLA and received a top-tier rating from PPFP reviewers will be considered for the CPFP.
CPFP Fellows receive the same benefits, mentoring, and terms of appointment as the President’s Postdoctoral Fellows, including eligibility for the
hiring incentive
for tenure-track faculty appointments.
The UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program is now accepting applications for 2024-2025.
The deadline to apply is November 1, 2023
. For
more information click here
.
Criteria:
Qualified scholars who will contribute to diversity and equal opportunity in higher education through their teaching, research or service and who will have a doctorate awarded by the start of the appointment on July 1, 2024.
Award:
Starting salaries begin at approximately $64,480, depending on the field of study and level of experience, plus benefits and up to $5,000 for research‐related and program travel expenses. Each award is for 12 months and may be renewable for an additional term upon demonstration of academic productivity.
Deadline:
November 1, 2023
Contact for CPFP Questions:
askgrad@grad.ucla.edu
.
Program Description
The CPFP offers postdoctoral research fellowships and faculty mentoring to outstanding scholars in all fields whose research, teaching, and service will contribute to the diversity and equal opportunity at the University of California. The contributions to diversity and equal opportunity may include public service towards increasing equitable access in fields where women and minorities are under-represented. The contributions may include research focusing on underserved populations or understanding inequalities related to, among other things, race, gender, sexual orientation, or ability status. The program seeks applicants who have the potential to bring to their academic and research careers critical perspectives that based on their educational background or their understanding of the experiences of members of groups that have been historically underrepresented in higher education in the United States.
Eligibility
Eligible applicants must hold or receive a Ph.D. from an accredited university by the start of the appointment. Those with terminal degrees in their field (JD, MD, MFA or EdD) may also apply, as long as they are preparing for a career in university teaching and research.
Successful applicants must present documents demonstrating that they are legally authorized to work in the United States. Visa sponsorship and work authorization is possible for successful applicants, a process which would be managed by the International Students and Scholars Office with the support of the UC faculty mentor on their home campus. Individuals granted deferred action status under Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals are encouraged to apply.
To be considered for a CPFP fellowship, all interested candidates MUST first apply to the UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (PPFP). Applicants who identified mentors at UCLA and receive AA reviews only will be considered for the CPFP fellowship.
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to age, race, color, religion, sex, sexuality, gender identity, national origin, ethnicity, disability status, protected veteran status, or any other characteristic protected by law.
Please see
Frequently Asked Questions
for additional information on eligibility.
Expectations
Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellows are expected to 1) focus full-time on research and avoid other commitments such as teaching as outlined in the teaching Guidelines for UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellows, 2) meet regularly with assigned faculty mentors, 3) attend annual academic retreat.
Application Process
Recipients of the UCLA Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (CPFP) for 2024-2025 will be selected from the pool of applicants who submitted applications to the
2024-2025 UC President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (PPFP)
and identified mentors at UCLA. Applicants who want to be considered for a CPFP fellowship must submit an application to PPFP by
November 1, 2023.
The potential mentor’s letter included in the PPFP application should address the UCLA department’s future hiring plans and the applicant’s potential for appointment at UCLA.
For information on the PPFP application process and to apply online, visit
http://ppfp.ucop.edu/info/how-to-apply/index.html
.
Faculty Hiring Incentive
Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellowship recipients are eligible for a
hiring incentive
program for faculty appointments at any of the 10 University of California campuses.
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)
What is the timeline for reviewing and announcing awards?
PPFP applicants who were not selected for the PPFP will receive notice by March 31
st
of the review year.
Around April 1, PPFP applicants who are under consideration for a UCLA CPFP fellowship will be notified by the Graduate Division. Potential mentors will also receive a notification that their potential mentee is under consideration.
Each mentor’s commitment and potential financial resources will be confirmed at that time.
UCLA endeavors to make final selections no later than June 1. When selections have been finalized, UCLA will inform all CPFP candidates and their potential mentors.
How are applicants selected?
In order to be considered to be a Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellow, you must first apply through the President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program (PPFP). Applicants in the top tiers from the PPFP review are sent to the UCLA campus, which conducts its own local review.
After campus reviewers evaluate each application, the Vice Chancellor for Equity, Diversity and Inclusion and the Vice Provost of Graduate Education select the recipients. An average of three awards is made annually for the Chancellor’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program, depending on available resources.
Are CPFP fellows fully funded?
Each year, one UCLA CPFP fellow receives full central funding to last two years. The second year of funding is contingent demonstration of scholarly productivity and participation in program events.
The additional CPFP fellows will receive funding from the mentor and/or department for two years: again, the second year of funding is contingent on scholarly productivity.
All CPFP fellows will receive $5,000 for travel and research expenses for each year (max. 2 years) that they serve as an active fellow.
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.