President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program
2024-25 Call for Applications (PDF)
Visit
President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program website
,
How to Apply FAQ’s
or email
ppfpinfo@berkeley.edu
for more information.
About
The University of California President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program was established in 1984 to encourage outstanding women and minority Ph.D. recipients to pursue academic careers at the University of California.
The current program offers postdoctoral research fellowships and faculty mentoring to outstanding scholars in all fields whose research, teaching, and service will contribute to the diversity and equal opportunity at the University of California.
The contributions to diversity may include public service towards increasing equitable access in fields where women and minorities are underrepresented. In some fields, the contributions may include research focusing on underserved populations or understanding inequalities related to race, gender, disability or LGBTQ.
The program is seeking applicants with the potential to bring to their academic and research careers the critical perspective that comes from their non-traditional educational background or understanding of the experiences of members of groups historically underrepresented in higher education in the United States.
Awards and Appointments
Fellowships are awarded for research conducted at any one of the University of California’s ten campuses.
The award includes a salary starting at approximately $64,480 depending on field and experience, benefits including health insurance and paid vacation/sick leave, and up to $5,000 for research-related and program travel expenses.
Each award is for a minimum of 12-months and may be renewable for an additional term upon demonstration of academic/research productivity.
Eligibility
Applicants must receive a Ph.D. or terminal degree from an accredited university before the start of their fellowship.
Successful applicants must present documents demonstrating that they are legally authorized to work in the United States.
Individuals granted deferred action status under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program are encouraged to apply.
Application
Applicants must receive a Ph.D. or terminal degree from an accredited university before the start of their fellowship.
Successful applicants must present documents demonstrating that they are legally authorized to work in the United States.
Individuals granted deferred action status under the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals program are encouraged to apply.
Apply online at the
President’s Postdoctoral Fellowship Program website
.
Deadline: November 1, 2023
Information on this website regarding postdoctoral scholar benefits are based on the previous UAW Bargaining Contract [ratified on 10/17/16]. For the most current information, please refer to the recently ratified contract:
https://ucnet.universityofcalifornia.edu/labor/bargaining-units/px/contract.html
.