Posdoctober Fest 2023 – National Postdoc Appreciation Week | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Posdoctober Fest 2023 – National Postdoc Appreciation Week
National Postdoc Appreciation Week is September 18 – September 22, 2023. Since 2009, the
National Postdoc Association
has sponsored National Postdoc Appreciation Day/Week to recognize the significant contributions that postdoctoral scholars make to U.S. research and discovery. Organizations from across the world participate by holding special events. In 2010, this week was officially recognized by the U.S. House of Representatives.
At UCLA, we celebrate our postdocs throughout the month of October with programming, workshops, and social events. Check out or schedule of events!
New Postdoctoral Scholar Orientation
Tuesday, October 3 at 2:00 PM in Biomedical Sciences Research Building (BSRB) Room 154
615 Charles E. Young Drive, South Los Angeles, CA 90095
The orientation will include a Q&A for postdoctoral appointments and policy, campus resources, and a brief presentation by the Postdoctoral Association (PDA at UCLA). Postdoc representatives from the postdoc union (
UAW Local 5810
) will answer questions about the postdoctoral contract and union membership.
This orientation is mandatory for all *new* postdoctoral scholars.
Postdoctober Fest Welcome Celebration
Thursday, October 5 at 4:30 PM in James West Alumni Center, Founder’s Room
325 Westwood Plaza Los Angeles, CA 90095
RSVP Here
Join us to celebrate Postdoctober Fest 2023, UCLA’s monthlong celebration of our postdoctoral scholar community! Enjoy a snack and chat with current and former UCLA postdocs, faculty mentors, and campus community.
RSVP is strongly encouraged.
Sponsored and hosted by UCLA Division of Graduate Education
Postdoctober IBLAQ Social Event
Tuesday, October 10 at 4:00 PM in Boyer 159 (
UCLA Map)
RSVP Here
Join us to for a social event for Indigenous/Black/Latinx/Asian/Queer postdoctoral scholars to network and meet. Refreshments provided. Sponsored and hosted by UCLA Bioscience Graduate Programs & Postdoctoral Affairs
Professional Development Planning for Postdocs
Friday, October 27 at 9:00 AM in BSRB 154 (
UCLA Map)
RSVP Here
This interactive workshop leads you through the development of a personalized professional development plan for your time in postdoctoral training. You will leave with a customized professional development plan that considers your academic and career goals, the duration of your program and the resources available at UCLA to include in your professional development plan. This event is sponsored and hosted by Division of Graduate Education and Bioscience Postdoctoral Affairs
JOIN THE NPA TODAY WITH YOUR UCLA AFFILIATE MEMBERSHIP
Make the most of your postdoctoral training by claiming your
FREE Affiliate Membership
with the National Postdoc Association! Access an extensive Resources Library, attend virtual trainings and webinars specifically designed for postdocs, and network with other postdocs at other institutions. Follow these easy steps to claim your affiliate membership today!
Visit
https://www.nationalpostdoc.org/general/register_member_type.asp
Register and provide your information using your
UCLA email address
.
Cilck “Submit” and NPA staff will review your Affiliate membership within 5 working days, and you will receive an email once it has been approved.
Once approved, you can access resources and register for webinars!
This entry was posted by
Francesca Gacho
. Bookmark the
permalink
.
Comments are closed.