Spring 2023 Career Development Events and Workshops | UCLA Postdoctoral Scholars
Skip to Audience Navigation
Skip to Main Menu
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
UCLA
Postdoctoral Scholars
Menu
Prospective Postdoctoral Scholars
Connect
Resources
Info for New Postdoctoral Scholars
Moving to LA
Postdoctoral Scholar Appointment Policy and Procedure
Finances
Campus Services and Resources
Reporting Options
Close (X)
Professional Development
About Us
Spring 2023 Career Development Events and Workshops
Spring 2023 Career Development Events & Workshops
Co-sponsored by UCLA Career Center and UCLA Division of Graduate Education
For questions, contact Francesca Gacho at askgrad@grad.ucla.edu
3 Months to A Job: Jumpstarting the Non-Academic Job Search
Thursday, April 6
4:00 – 5:30 PM via Zoom
Register here:
https://tinyurl.com/3-months-to-a-job
In this workshop, we’ll help jumpstart the process by walking you through a step-by-step plan to strategize and maximize your time. Workshop attendees will develop a three-month plan, learn search strategies, and get tips on how to present yourself to employers.
Resume Drop-Ins for Graduate Students & Postdoctoral Scholars
Monday, April 10
5:00 – 7:00 PM via Zoom
Register here:
https://tinyurl.com/23S-resume-drop-in
Are you a grad student or postdoc interested in getting quick feedback on your resume before a job fair or application deadline? Join us to get one-on-one feedback on formatting, structure, and bullet points to create a strong document that effectively demonstrates the scale, impact, and relevance of your experiences. To make the most of your drop-in, we strongly recommend that you use
VMock
, an automated resume review tool, before attending the resume review.
Participants are seen on a first-come, first-serve basis for 10-15 minute sessions.
What’s the 4-1-1 on First-Generation Faculty of Color?
Tuesday, April 11
5:00 – 7:00 PM
UCLA Career Center Conference Room 200
Register here:
https://www.eventbrite.com/e/whats-the-4-1-1-on-first-generation-faculty-of-color-tickets-577662583337
Come meet and hear from the editors and contributing authors of
First-Generation Faculty of Color: Reflections on Research, Teaching, and Service
, the first book to examine the experiences of racially minoritized faculty who were also the first in their families to graduate college in the United States. Reception and book signing to follow. Copies of the book will be available for purchase at the event and online at
Rutgers University Press
Navigating Disabilities in the Workplace
Wednesday, April 12
5:30 – 7:00 PM via Zoom
Register here:
https://app.joinhandshake.com/edu/events/1276865
What is the best way to self-advocate for accommodations in the workplace, and how do you account for your disability when selecting an internship or employer? Join us to learn when and how to discuss disabilities in the interview and on the job from alumni. During the workshop, participants will receive several career development resources that are inclusive of disabilities to strengthen their job search
Making the Most of In-Person Networking Events
Thursday, May 4
4:00 – 5:30 PM via Zoom
Registration TBD
What are the best ways to make the most of a networking event as a grad student or postdoc? Join us to learn and practice strategies for approaching people and starting conversations, asking strong questions to learn valuable information, and maintaining connections after an event. Participants will leave the workshop with a better understanding of how to effectively and authentically engage with people during in-person networking events and resources to help support career development and job searches.
Save the Dates!
STEM & Health Sciences Networking Night
Thursday, May 18 from 6:00 – 8:00 PM
Tipuana Multipurpose Room
900 Weyburn Place North
Connecting over 100+ STEM and health sciences advanced degree alumni and employers from local industries with graduate students and postdoctoral scholars.
North Campus Networking Night
Wednesday, May 24 from 6:00 – 8:00 PM
Village View Room, 4th Floor Weyburn Commons
11020 Weyburn Avenue
Connecting 30+ humanities, social science, arts, and education advanced degree alumni from local industries with graduate students and postdoctoral scholars.
North Campus Academic Job Panel for Faculty Positions in the Humanities, Social Sciences, Arts & Education
Wednesday, June 7
5:30 – 7:00 PM via Zoom
Registration TBD
Planning to go on the academic job market this year? Want to be prepared to take full advantage of any opportunities you find posted? Join us for a great conversation with UCLA PhD alumni from the social sciences, humanities, education, and the arts to learn more about how to apply for faculty jobs, what to expect from the academic job market, and what the expectations are at different kinds of universities and colleges.
Registration opens two weeks before the event date and is limited to graduate students and postdoctoral scholars.
This entry was posted by
Francesca Gacho
. Bookmark the
permalink
.
Comments are closed.