Machine Shop | SHOPS
Select Page
Search for:
X
Machine Shop
Monday – Friday / 8:00 am to 3:30 pm except on holidays
With over 80 years of combined experience in the machining industry, we can tackle tough problems, and respond quickly to meet your needs. We can work from your prints or help you with the design process, turning sketches into 3-D CAD models. These models can be rapid-prototyped and verified, allowing changes to be made before parts are machined, saving you time and money. Quotes are provided, and we offer fair and competitive rates.
Starting Your Project
HSSEAS R & D Shops are available to all nine UC campuses. Our skilled staffs of machinist, welders, carpenters, electricians and plumbers provide a wide range of services. We are experienced and routinely handle both large and small projects, from one of experimental prototypes to short or long production runs. We can help guide you from the initial concept through the engineering design work and final fabrication.HSSEAS R&D Shops provides all of the operations required in engineering design: electiral discharge machining, shaping, band sawing, boring, grinding, lathe turning, threading, drilling, milling, bending, and shearing of all types of materials. Our engineering office can also provide you with drawings, patterns or blue prints from sketches or concepts using AutoCAD.We use the latest in Computer Aided Design/Computer Aided Manufacturing (CAD/CAM) software.
Data from these applications can be fed directly into a 4-axis computer numerical control machining center (known as a CNC machine). We also feature a Wire Cut Electrical Discharge Machine (known as an EDM machine). This machine can manufacture complex shapes in common and exotic metals and other materials, such as conductive ceramics, to burr-free, split tenth accuracies. It is our goal to provide you with the most productive machining and best service available. Our campus rate is
$ 58.00
per hour. Our off-campus rate is
$ 73.00
. We provide you with estimates and consultation. For questions or project estimates, please contact the Shops Superintendent,
Dirk Williams.
Student Faculty Shop
Safety Guidelines
Banned Material
Reservations
Reservation Policy
Student/Faculty Machinery & Equipment
Scheduleit Instructions
Student/Faculty Training
​
aredon@seas.ucla.edu
Anthony Redon
UCLA HSSEAS
R&D Shops – Shops
1805 Boelter Hall
420 Westwood Plaza
Mail Code 160010
Los Angeles, CA 90095
(310) 825-2264
Online MSR
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA