Psychology Undergraduate Advising • UCLA Department of Psychology
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
About
Contact Us
Give
Home
»
Undergraduate Program
»
Psychology Undergraduate Advising
Psychology Undergraduate Advising
FOR CURRENT UNDERGRADUATE UCLA STUDENTS ONLY
: To get important messages regarding enrollment, departmental programs, and resources, sign up to receive emails via our
Google Group
.
Psychology Advising Services
Psychology Department Advisors are available to support current UCLA undergraduates through in-person drop-in advising hours. Our office is located in 1530 Pritzker Hall, and is open from 9:00-11:30am and 1:00-4:00pm, Monday-Thursday for general inquiries. Note our drop-in hours below. Hours may vary due to staff trainings, events, and holidays. Please check this webpage for updates to our drop-in hours. Psychology Advising staff work remotely on Fridays.
The Psychology Advising Office will be
closed
on Monday, February 19, 2024. Drop in advising will resume on Tuesday, February 20, 2024.
Drop-in Advising
Drop-in Advising is offered in 1530 Pritzker Hall, on the following days/times:
Mondays: 1:00-3:00pm
Tuesdays, Wednesdays, Thursdays: 9:00-11:00am & 1:00-3:00pm
*Please be sure to bring a picture ID to meet with an advisor.
Drop-In Advising Instructions
Students should attend drop-in hours for assistance with any of the following topics:
Major and pre-major questions (Psychology, Psychobiology, Cognitive Science)
Applied Developmental Psychology minor course requirements
Short-term course planning for major courses
Enrollment questions/concerns about Psychology courses
Questions about Psychology department fieldwork/research opportunities
When you arrive for drop-in advising, intake staff will record your questions and place you on the waitlist to see an advisor. Wait times vary, and arriving early during drop-in advising shifts increases your chances of a shorter wait. Please be aware that during busy times, like enrollment, drop-in appointments fill up quickly, and you may need to return the next day due to high demand.
Message Center Instructions
Please contact an advisor
via Message Center on myUCLA 🔗
for assistance with:
Declaring pre-majors/majors within the Psychology department
Course substitution petitions
Double major petitions
Degree plan contracts
Course contract submissions
Any other forms that require an advisor’s signature
*Responses to inquiries sent via Message Center may take up to 5 business days.
College Counseling Unit Services
Please
contact your College Counseling Unit 🔗
for questions regarding non-major requirements, long-term (i.e. 3-4 year) degree plans, and overall graduation checks.
Department of Psychology
1285 Franz Hall, Box 951563
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-2961
UCLA Home
College
Life Sciences
Department Directory
Department Calendar
Course Login
IT Helpdesk
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use