Learn More About the University’s 12 Schools | UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
College & Schools
UCLA is home to the College and 12 highly ranked professional schools. The College is home to more than 85 percent of undergraduates and four academic divisions: Humanities, Social Sciences, Physical Sciences
                    and Life Sciences. The professional schools focus on fields of study that include the arts, education, law, medicine, music, public affairs and more. Read on to learn about the different schools, their specialties and the degrees students can work toward in each.
School of the
Arts & Architecture
Offers B.A., M. Arch., M.S., M.F.A., M.A., Ph.D.
Degree programs in four departments offer you unparalleled opportunities to learn from and interact with faculty members who rank among the most innovative artists, designers, ethnographers, choreographers,
                                architects and arts scholars of today.
#1 in best graduate fine arts program
The College
Offers B.A., B.S., M.A., M.A.S., M.S., C.Phil., Ph.D., M.A.T., M.S.S.
As an undergraduate or graduate student taught by the College’s world-renowned faculty, you’ll be prepared to lead in business, government, academics and your community in California and throughout
                                the world.
85% of undergraduates enroll in the College
School of
Dentistry
Offers M.S., D.D.S., Ph.D.
The School of Dentistry has a national and international reputation for its teaching, research activities and public outreach. Here, you’ll find your path to a professional career dedicated to patient care, innovation,
                                leadership and service.
Among the top 6 dentistry institutions in the world
School of
Education & Information Studies
Offers B.A., M.A., M.Ed., Ed.D., Ph.D., M.L.I.S.
Here, help ignite change alongside future generations of scholars, teachers, information professionals and institutional leaders. The school is leading many new and imperative initiatives that address some of today’s most pressing issues.
#3 best educational school nationally
Samueli School of
Engineering
Offers B.S., M.S., Ph.D.
Pursue cutting-edge research in areas such as precision medicine and bioengineering, sustainable and resilient urban design, robotics, artificial intelligence and machine learning. The collaborative, entrepreneurial and fearless environment will set you up to engineer change.
The birthplace of the internet
School of
Law
Offers J.D., L.L.M., M.L.S., S.J.D.
Join a top-tier public law school committed to equality of access and opportunity. Gain experience by volunteering at local organizations or working for federal judges, government agencies, public interest law firms
                                and nonprofit organizations.
5 law programs ranked top 10 nationally
Anderson School of
Management
Offers M.B.A., F.E.M.B.A., E.M.B.A., M.F.E., M.S.B.A., Ph.D.
Learn how to bring your dreams and bold ideas to life and drive change in the creative capital of the world. You’ll graduate with a broad understanding of people and organizations and technical expertise
                                in economic and mathematical management concepts.
4 business programs ranked top 10 nationally
David Geffen School of
Medicine
Offers M.S., M.D., Ph.D.
Make your mark at an internationally recognized leader in research, medical education and patient care. The school is affiliated with the nation’s No. 5 ranked hospital, which is right on campus, along with many other major
                                local health care institutions.
Among the nation’s top 15 most diverse medical schools
Herb Alpert School of
Music
Offers B.A., B.M., M.A., M.M., D.M.A., Ph.D.
Here, a holistic education means engaging in a productive collaboration between performance and scholarship. Achieve a cross-cultural, global understanding of music and receive preparatory training for a range of
                                careers after graduation.
Student/faculty ratio of 4:1
School of
Nursing
Offers B.S., M.S.N. (M.E.C.N.), M.S.N. (A.P.R.N.), D.N.P., Ph.D.
The School of Nursing will ensure you keep pace with changes and challenges by creating an atmosphere of learning that has earned a national and international reputation for excellence in teaching, research and clinical
                                practice.
#10 best nursing program for earning a B.S.
Luskin School of
Public Affairs
Offers B.A., M.P.P., M.S.W., M.U.R.P., Ph.D.
Policymaking. Social work. Urban and regional planning. If you’re studying one of these areas at UCLA Luskin, you’ll find frequent opportunities for collaboration across disciplines. And together,
                                you’ll work to solve society’s biggest problems.
#12 best public affairs programs nationally
Fielding School of
Public Health
Offers M.P.H., M.P.H./M.U.R.P., M.S., M.H.A., Ph.D.
At the Fielding School, you’ll share a home with one of the brightest and most diverse public health student bodies in the U.S., where students hail from 26 countries. The school has five departments,
                                including Biostatistics and Epidemiology.
#10 best public health school nationally
School of
Theater, Film and Television
Offers B.A., M.A., M.F.A., Ph.D.
Join multifaceted storytellers, scholars and industry leaders for a truly interdisciplinary experience that melds entertainment, performing arts and cutting-edge research. Immerse yourself in a variety of ideas, methods and mediums while pursuing your passions.
#5 best film school in the nation
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept