Continuing Education Opportunities | UCLA Extension |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Continuing Education
UCLA is deeply committed to the advancement and enrichment of Los Angeles and the Southern California region. Our continuing education programs are designed to help individuals grow — whether it’s exploring an interest, developing skills or shifting careers. These programs exist to serve students from every walk of life, so you never have to stop learning.
For Career Switchers, Lifelong Learners and International Students
UCLA Extension is one of the nation’s largest and most comprehensive continuing education programs. Its resources are tailored to the needs of working adults and lifelong learners, with open enrollment and evening, weekend, daytime and online courses.
We customize the curriculum to place your aspirations within reach through 150 certificate programs in more than 20 different fields. Our programs cater to 3,000
international students
and professionals per year.
Many professionals who have university degrees enroll in UCLA Extension courses and programs to update their knowledge in such fields as engineering, computer science, business and management, health sciences and teacher education. Learn more about our
custom programs and corporate education
.
UCLA Extension
Law
Continuing Education of the Bar (CEB) is a University of California program that helps the legal community stay abreast of new developments and procedures in the field of law. Providing a variety of award-winning practice books, guides and continuing legal education programs — as well as the finest research, writing and presentations by leading lawyers in California — CEB sets the bar high.
Continuing Education of the Bar
Executive Leadership and Management
UCLA Anderson Executive Education has been helping organizations and individuals work smarter since 1954. Anderson Executive Education drives new knowledge off of the white board and into the workplace, where it counts. Whether the focus is organizational or individual, Executive Education can help established and emerging leaders develop a broad range of capabilities.
Anderson School of Management
K–12 Education
Center X designs and conducts programs that prepare and support K–12 teachers and administrators committed to social justice, instructional excellence, the integration of research and practice, and caring, in low-income urban schools. Center X’s work extends across two graduate credential programs and many professional development initiatives.
School of Education and Information Studies
Entertainment Industry
School of Theater, Film and Television alumni have won 27 Academy Awards, seven Tonys and hundreds of Emmys. The school offers professional programs in producing, screenwriting and writing for television that are modeled after its world-renowned M.F.A. program. And because students can pursue the writing programs on campus or online, they can write the scripts for their own future, on their own time.
School of Theater, Film and Television
Early Childhood and Head Start
Dedicated to policy and institutional reform, the National Head Start Association develops educational programs to provide vulnerable children and families with the tools and necessities to succeed in life. The Anderson School of Management offers the UCLA/Johnson & Johnson Head Start Management Fellows Program, a unique opportunity for Head Start administrators to strengthen their executive and entrepreneurial management skills through a series of discussions, workshops, case studies and lectures.
Anderson School of Management Fellows Program
Medicine
The Office of Continuing Medical Education at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA helps keep the medical community abreast of new and evolving medical concepts and advancements. Chaired and taught by UCLA faculty and acclaimed experts in the field, the program offers nearly 60 courses and develops a wide spectrum of educational materials in various media for doctors around the world.
David Geffen School of Medicine Continuing Education
Neuroscience and Human Behavior
The Jane and Terry Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior is a world-leading interdisciplinary research and education institute devoted to the understanding of complex human behavior and the causes and consequences of neuropsychiatric disorders. The institute offers a variety of opportunities for lifelong learners — from presentations on the latest mental health breakthroughs and treatment innovations to workshops and online clinical neuroscience programs.
Semel Institute for Neuroscience and Human Behavior
Dentistry
Over the past half-century, the UCLA School of Dentistry has become a leading dental school on the international stage. The school’s continuing education program helps practicing dentists broaden and sharpen their skills with courses covering the latest scientific and clinical developments in the field. With the latest technical updates and practical training programs, UCLA is constantly refining and enhancing lifelong learning in dentistry.
School of Dentistry Continuing Education
Emergency and Paramedic Medicine
Over the 25-year history of the Center for Prehospital Care, its work has grown to encompass education, research and institutional quality improvement. The center serves aspiring and experienced EMS providers, agencies and healthcare professionals in a variety of allied fields. As part of the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, it is the only emergency and prehospital academic center on the West Coast, with a national and international reputation for the quality of its faculty, graduates and research work.
Center for Prehospital Care
Occupational Health and Safety
The Southern California Education NIOSH and Research Center embodies a coordinated, interdisciplinary set of continuing education activities that have a positive impact on the region’s and nation’s occupational health and safety practice. The center reaches out to all levels of management within business and industry, to leaders of government, to other academic institutions, and to workers to increase their awareness of workplace health and safety issues and safe work practices.
Southern California Education NIOSH and Research Center
Retiree Lifelong Learning
If you’re 50 or over and interested in the sheer joy of learning, UCLA Extension invites you to join a vibrant community of like-minded adults at the Osher Lifelong Learning Institute at UCLA (OLLI). OLLI provides a unique opportunity for retired and semi-retired individuals to participate in an extensive program of classes, lectures, discussion groups, special events and social gatherings.
Osher Lifelong Learning Institute
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept