Graduate & Professional Education |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Graduate & Professional Education
Explore UCLA’s master’s and doctoral degree programs offered in 130+ academic and professional fields of study.
UCLA’s graduate programs have a reputation for producing professionals, researchers and leaders who have a major impact on the world.
With more than 40 programs ranked among the best in the nation, UCLA gives
				today’s graduate students the cutting-edge resources and mentorship they need to go out and leave their own indelible mark.
And with the second largest city in the U.S. in our backyard, learning extends beyond the classroom. Engaging with the community while being part of a well connected academic system that is respected
				throughout the world creates an educational experience that cannot be replicated anywhere else.
All Graduate Programs
Top 10
More than 40 of UCLA’s graduate programs ranked in the top 10 nationally, including art, psychology, math, history, sociology and English.
Influential Faculty
From Nobel Prize winners and Pulitzer Prize awardees to MacArthur Fellows and recipients of the Fields Medal and Turing Award, UCLA faculty members are experts in their fields. They are among the most often cited faculty in the world and their research and discoveries have a global impact. 
					Graduate students are given every opportunity to learn from and work alongside these inspiring professors and researchers.
Terence Tao
Fields Medal-winning math professor and the James and Carol Collins Chair in the College of Letters and Sciences
Jennifer Jay
Professor of civil and environmental engineering and department vice chair of graduate affairs
Neil Garg
Distinguished professor, chair of chemistry and biochemistry, and faculty-in-residence
Support for Research
UCLA graduate and professional students take on thousands of original research projects every year, working as part of a team or independently. Their research may create scientific and medical advances, address
					urgent societal problems or deepen understanding of arts and cultures.
Research Across Campus
More than $1 Billion
in research funding received each year, which funds 5,500 research proposals
Interdisciplinary Study
UCLA graduate and professional scholars have long collaborated across the boundaries of their respective academic fields in the pursuit of discoveries and solutions that don’t always fit neatly in one box or the other.
					Dozens of research centers and institutes foster interdisciplinary research as well. And Organized Research Units (ORUs) are created for the purpose of bridging the gaps between traditional disciplinary boundaries.
Wherever you look around campus, collaboration is happening both organically and as a result of these concerted efforts to bring more than one school of thought under the same roof.
Studying in Los Angeles
When you pursue graduate studies at UCLA, you have the opportunity to experience the professional world in a global city like no other. Los Angeles is teeming with variety, energy and industry. The best of food, arts, culture, sports and entertainment are right outside your door at UCLA. The economies of Los Angeles and California are among the world’s most dynamic: If California were a country, it would have the fifth largest economy in the world, behind Germany and ahead of India.
Financial Support for Graduate Students
UCLA is dedicated to offering support to graduate students from both the United States and beyond. Students from abroad make up over 20 percent of our graduate community of 14,000 scholars and come from over 90 countries.
Financial support funds are available to graduate students in many forms: grants, fellowships, traineeships, teaching assistantships and graduate student researcher
					appointments. Support based solely on need is also provided through the Financial Aid & Scholarships Office in the form of work-study and loans. Graduate programs at UCLA also offer employment
					opportunities to graduate students, including teaching and research assistantships.
Financial Aid Information
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept