Explore One of the Top Ranked University Libraries |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Libraries
Reinvention and innovative research are at the core of the UCLA identity. And it’s evident in the caliber of our library, which is consistently ranked among the top academic libraries in the country.
With a collection of over twelve million books and 100,000 serials, the University of California, Los Angeles, library system is one of North America's largest academic research libraries.
Whether on campus or online, the UCLA Library preserves cultural heritage and makes knowledge accessible. Our library system serves students, faculty and researchers of all disciplines. It is one library with many physical
locations
fostering productive partnerships with different communities all over campus and providing easy access to expertise, collections and services.
The UCLA Library locations play an essential role in supporting the broadest possible public access to knowledge and the historical record. Together, the 10 UC campus libraries have more volumes than the Library of Congress — and as part of the UC system, Bruins can tap into all the richness of information contained in these world-class collections. Library staff members offer students free assistance with research and writing and can help members of the community find answers and access resources quickly.
UCLA Library
Library Catalog
Campus Locations
Open Access Research Publications
12 Million
Print and Electronic Volumes
2nd Largest
Research Library by Titles Held
15 Million+
Virtual Visitors Online
Primary Research Materials
The Library discovers and acquires materials across many subjects and formats to support scholars’ needs. Library staff members collaborate with UCLA researchers to build and curate unique collections that anticipate their needs and interests.
Our special collections and archives are important primary research materials. The Library works with organizations around the world to digitize their collections for preservation and provide worldwide access.
Digital Collections
Online Exhibitions
More Special Collections
Biomedical Library History and Special Collections
Research Library Special Collections
Clark Library (17th and 18th Century Studies)
Richard C. Rudolph East Asian Library (Chinese, Japanese, Korean languages)
Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies Library and Media Center
American Indian Studies Center Library
Asian American Studies Center Reading Room
Chicano Studies Research Center Library
University Archives (History of UCLA)
More Archives
Air Photo Archives
Ethnomusicology Archive
Film and Television Archive
California Digital Library
Cuneiform Digital Library Initiative
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept