Academics | Degree Programs & Majors | UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Degree Programs, Majors and Minors
UCLA offers a vast array of degree programs and areas of study for undergraduate and graduate students. Your academic pursuits can flex to suit your needs. You can study abroad, pursue a minor in addition to your major or even earn two degrees at once. In some fields, you can pursue a master's degree as an undergraduate.
Use the tool below to learn about the degrees, majors and minors that UCLA offers. Select the degrees that interest you to learn about their specific requirements.
Some degree programs offer specializations that help you hone in on your specific area of interest. For example, you can earn an M.F.A. in film and television with a specialization in screenwriting, an M.M. in music performance with a specialization in jazz, or an M.S. in biology with a specialization in the ecology and evolution of medicine. Visit the departments for the programs that interest you to learn more.
If you're unsure what you want to pursue, attend
New Student Orientation
the summer before you start at UCLA. You'll learn about choosing a major, course planning, graduation requirements, graduate programs, professional schools and more.
×
Degree Type
Majors
Minors
Masters
Doctorates
Professional
Field of Study
Biology & Health
Computer Science & Math
Economics & Business
Education
Humanities & Cultures
Languages
Performing Arts
Physical Science & Engineering
Psychology & Neuroscience
Social & Political Science
Visual Arts & Design
School
Arts & Architecture
College
Dentistry
Education & Information Studies
Engineering
Law
Management
Medicine
Music
Nursing
Public Affairs
Public Health
Theater, Film & Television
Clear Filters
Load More (50)
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept