Begin your Undergraduate Education at UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Undergraduate Education
UCLA offers an astonishing breadth of academic opportunities. When you’re here, you can explore all of your interests to create a one-of-a-kind educational experience.
Beyond the sheer number of fascinating fields of study, our innovative curriculum and award-winning faculty will encourage you to expand the limits of what you believe to be possible.
And our location in Los Angeles, one of the most dynamic, diverse and culturally rich cities in the world, opens up countless opportunities for personal and professional growth.
Our curriculum features more than 3,900 courses, 130 majors and 90 minors for undergraduates.
Academic Experience
Small, Interactive Classes
Our compact class sizes enable you to work closely with our amazing faculty and get to know other students. Two out of three UCLA classes have 30 or fewer students. Even smaller are the 200 freshman seminars
					called “Fiat Lux” (Let There Be Light), each with an intriguing topic and only 10–20 students.
Fiat Lux
Interdisciplinary Programs
If you are interested in academic disciplines combined in innovative ways, consider interdepartmental majors like global studies, environmental science or neuroscience — taught in collaboration with both medical school and
					life sciences faculty. Freshmen can also take a yearlong series of classes with a unifying theme through our Cluster Program. In Clusters, students examine a big idea, like interracial dynamics, from a wide variety of perspectives. The courses are taugh collaboratively by an interdisciplinary team of distinguished faculty and experienced graduate students.
Cluster Program
30 or fewer
students in two out of every three undergraduate classes
Original Research
Over half of our students graduate with research experience in the humanities as well as social sciences, engineering and laboratory sciences. You can pursue your own research interests or work alongside faculty,
					participate in field research or explore library treasures. Some undergraduates even publish in academic journals.
Research
Internships, Fellowships and More
Participate in internships, fellowships, community service and other experiential learning opportunities to gain real-world experience, sharpen skills and make valuable connections. Our
Career Center
makes it easy for you to find opportunities both on and off campus. In Los Angeles, home to major industries including entertainment, tech, aerospace, automotive, government and finance, there are jnternships to suit every interest. 
				Fellowships offer short-term learning opportunities in a wide array of fields; they’re an excellent way to broaden your learning experience. And with over 1,000 student clubs and organizations, leadership workshops, community-related projects and entrepreneurship opportunities, you can pursue current passions and discover new ones.
Internships and Experiential Learning
Study Abroad
Choose from 115
study abroad programs
at select institutions in more than 40 countries.
					From formal classroom study to field research, studying abroad through UCLA allows you to fully immerse yourself in the global community.
Study Abroad
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept