Art & Global Health Center • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Art & Global Health Center
The
UCLA Art & Global Health Center
is a part of the department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance at the UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture. UCLA students may take classes taught by the Center's resident and guest educators. The UCLA community and the public at large is invited to participate in events produced by the Art & Global Health Center, including performances, exhibits, workshops, lectures, and more. Our programs include
AMP!
/Sex Squad,
Through Positive Eyes,
and ongoing collaborative initiatives, including with the
UCLA Prison Education Program
.
Founded in 2006, the Art & Global Health Center creates arts-based public health interventions guided by principles of human rights and social justice, specializing in reinventing sexual health education, devising new methods for stigma reduction, reinforcing human empowerment, and catalyzing behavior change.
Learn more about the Art & Global Health Center's work by visiting
artglobalhealth.org
.
About
Mission & Educational Vision
Contact
Facilities
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
History
Art & Global Health Center
Dancing Disability Lab
Contact
For inquiries and additional information, please contact:
David Gere
Professor, Faculty Director: Art & Global Health Center
Email:
dgere@ucla.edu
History
Dancing Disability Lab
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top