Dancing Disability Lab • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Dancing Disability Lab
An immersive engagement in disability studies scholarship alongside movement exploration and choreographic inquiry.
Two dancers face one another, standing closely together. A light skinned dancer (Bailey Anderson), dressed in a black turtleneck and sweats, raises her right arm, palm facing forward. A brown skinned dancer, Vanessa Nightsky Cruz, dressed in black leggings and a burgundy and black top looks out over her extended right arm, which stretches to her side, palm down. A mobility device, (AKA Pluto) rests behind Bailey.
Photo credit: Bailey Anderson, Vanessa Nightsky Cruz and Pluto. Courtesy UCLA
DANCING DISABILITY LAB 2023
The Dancing Disability Lab, founded and directed by Choreographer and UCLA Professor Victoria Marks returns in 2023 with artists Kayla Hamilton (artist facilitator) and India Harville (access and equity facilitator) in the leads. The Lab will be held in-person at UCLA’s Glorya Kaufman Hall, July 17-24, 2023.
The Lab continues its commitment to support the growth of artistic community amongst dance artists with disabilities, advocating for aesthetic perspectives informed by diverse corporeal experience. Continuing with a participant-leadership structure, participants will share artistic practice, prompts for group movement and individual exploration. Discussions will be generated by artist participants. Seeking to align disability justice with creative practice, the Lab is committed to the project of providing an anti-racist, anti-ableist, non-binary, anti-ageist, environment for all, and to support a diverse community of artist-participants.
The public is invited to a free informal sharing on Sunday, July 23rd at 1:00 pm in Kaufman Hall room 208.
Artist participants include… (see web page)
https://dslabs.ucla.edu/labs/dancing-disability/2023-cohort/
The Dancing Disability Lab operates with support from the Mellon Foundation and UCLA’s Division of Undergraduate Education, School of the Arts and Architecture, and Office of Equity Diversity and Inclusion.
DDL FAQ
About
Mission & Educational Vision
Contact
Facilities
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
History
Art & Global Health Center
Dancing Disability Lab
Contact
For inquiries and additional information, please contact:
Victoria Marks
Professor, Faculty Director:  Dancing Disability Lab, Vice Chair of Undergraduate Affairs
Email:
vmarks@arts.ucla.edu
Phone:
310-493-8114
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top