Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
In accordance with our diverse faculty profile, their culturally diverse research agendas, and the fundamental dedication of our department to multi-cultural perspectives on teaching, researching and safeguarding of the arts in all spheres of life, the Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is committed to advancing, sustaining and promoting campus diversity.
To further the role of UCLA as a premier public institution, we profoundly endorse its efforts to “effect change in the patterns of disadvantage and discrimination that are still so evident in our society,” as stated by the Chancellor. Differences in race, ethnicity, gender, age, religion, language, abilities/disabilities, sexual orientation, socioeconomic status and geographic region are aspects of this diversity mandate that have been especially important to our state of California, and a wellspring of its innovative ideas and creative accomplishments.
Making sure that our state’s citizenry from all backgrounds and persuasions “perceive that access to the university is possible for talented students, staff and faculty,” as stated in the University of California official diversity statement of June 30, 2006, is unequivocally endorsed by the Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance, in order “to foster innovation and train future leadership…and help to sustain the social fabric of the State,” as that seminal declaration goes on to affirm. Indeed, given our program’s distinct academic mandate in this regard, our commitment to this pluralistic and inclusive model, always within the context of respectful, civil communication, constructive civic engagement and mutual respect, is absolutely foundational.
From the University of California Diversity Statement:
The diversity of the people of California has been the source of innovative ideas and creative accomplishment throughout the state’s history into the present. Diversity – a defining feature of California’s past, present, and future – refers to the variety of personal experiences, values, and worldviews that arise from differences of culture and circumstances. Such differences include race, ethnicity, gender, age, religion, language, abilities/disabilities, sexual orientation, gender identity, socioeconomic status, and geographic region, and more.
Because the core mission of the University of California is to serve the interests of the State of California, it must seek to achieve diversity among faculty, its student bodies, and among its staff.
We have a historic promise to recognize and nurture merit, talent, and achievement by supporting diversity– including removing barriers to the recruitment, retention, and advancement of talented students, faculty, and staff from historically excluded populations who are currently underrepresented.
Resources and Policies
UCLA Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
Faculty Search Briefings Schedule
UCLA Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion Programs
Campus Resources
Teaching Guides for Creating an Inclusive Classroom
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion in Teaching Media
UCLA Title IX Office
UCLA Campus Assault Resources and Education (CARE) Program
Procedures for Handling Allegations of Discrimination, Harassment, or Retaliation
Faculty Code of Conduct
UC Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment Policy
EDI Workshops & Events
-
UC Board of Regents Policy 4400 — Policy on University of California Diversity Statement
Funding Opportunities
Discrimination Prevention Office
About
Mission & Educational Vision
Contact
Facilities
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
History
Art & Global Health Center
Dancing Disability Lab
Facilities
History
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top