Facilities • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Facilities
Monday – Friday, 8 AM – 5 PM
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is located in Glorya Kaufman Hall on UCLA’s north campus. It houses two theaters, five studios, and a video lab. All facilities are ADA accessible. The Glorya Kaufman Dance Theater and dance studios are located on the second floor and are accessible by elevator or stairs. The Garden Theater is located on the ground level. Kaufman Hall's dance studios can also serve as dressing rooms for the performance spaces.
Rental Rates
One day rental based on office operating hours 8 AM – 5 PM. Hourly rental is 3 hours minimum and 5 hours maximum. If outside those hours, additional costs will be assessed as needed for CSO/security services and other labor.
All Kaufman Hall Facilities Rental Rates
(29.07 kB)
Rental Requests
Please access the following form to make a facilities rental request:
Event Registration Form
Location Permits
According to policies set forth by the University of California's Events Office, location filming permits are required when videotaping anywhere on the UCLA campus, including inside Kaufman Hall. The only exception is the videotaping of rehearsals inside studios and theaters. Applications are available from the Events Office, located at 168 Kerckhoff Hall, or from the video lab manager. Completed applications are to be turned into the Events Office one week prior to your shooting dates. The permit fee will be waived for students shooting class related projects. All other projects may be assessed a fee.
About
Glorya Kaufman Dance Theater,
Kaufman 200
Amber Dance Studio/Theater,
Kaufman 208
Kaufman Family Garden Theater,
Kaufman 1000
Crystal Dance Studio,
Kaufman 214
Sapphire Dance Studio,
Kaufman 230
Topaz Dance Studio,
Kaufman 240
Coral Dance Studio,
Kaufman 250
Video Lab,
Kaufman 145
Social Practice Art Lab
Phoenix Conference Room,
Kaufman 160
Rental Details
Contact
For inquiries and additional information, please contact:
Ginger Holguin
Production Manager, Lecturer
Email:
gholguin@arts.ucla.edu
Phone:
+1 (310) 825-2129
Contact
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top