Apply • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Apply
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is an interdisciplinary unit which finds its reason for being in a set of intellectual and artistic problems rather than an established academic discipline. The programs of teaching, research, and performance in World Arts and Cultures/Dance are unified around a shared concern with problems of cultural identity and difference; the meaning of tradition in contemporary societies; the forging of connections between critical theory and artistic practice; and the changing social roles and responsibilities of artists and scholars of the arts, both in the United States and worldwide.
If you have any questions after reviewing our website, please contact us:
wacdadmissions@arts.ucla.edu
Programs
Undergraduate Admissions
Graduate Admissions
Visiting, Postdoctoral, Non-degree Scholars
Undergraduate Admissions
B.A. in Dance Admissions
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures Admissions
Graduate Admissions
M.F.A. in Choreographic Inquiry Admissions
Ph.D. in Culture and Performance Admissions
Graduate Degrees
WAC Abroad
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top