Programs Overview • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Programs Overview
Our four innovative degree programs are devoted to academic and artistic excellence, diversity, freedom of expression, activism, and social transformation through the arts.
B.A. in Dance
We integrate composition, training, and improvisation, while challenging students to locate dance culturally, politically, and historically.
Learn more
Apply
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures
We emphasize studies in arts activism, visual cultures, and critical ethnographies. Theory and practice emerge from culturally diverse artistic expressions.
Learn more
Apply
What Can I Do with a BA in World Arts and Cultures?
M.F.A. in Choreographic Inquiry
We promote adventurous choreographic experimentation while engaging with global discourses around the body and performance.
Learn more
Apply
Ph.D. in Culture and Performance
We foreground interdisciplinary research that builds on and contributes to theories of corporeality, performance, visuality, and culture.
Learn more
Apply
All students are encouraged to complement the required set of core and elective departmental courses with others offered across campus, such as courses from ethnic and area studies programs, and may organize their course of study in relation to particular interests or professional goals (e.g., international comparative studies, intercultural studies, education, area specializations such as Africa, Asia, or Latin America, minority discourse, gender studies, etc).
Undergraduates and graduates make careers in community non-profits and activist groups, government arts agencies, museums, and arts foundations. Potential careers for Ph.D. and M.F.A. graduates also include positions in research universities and colleges. M.F.A. graduates are active as choreographers/performers in their own companies or with other professional organizations. All students can also excel in other fields including technology and the arts, videography, documentary work, public service, education, theatrical/events production, performing arts, urban planning, law, environmental activism, public health, and more.
Programs
Programs Overview
Undergraduate Degrees
Graduate Degrees
Apply
WAC Abroad
Undergraduate Degrees
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top