Undergraduate Degrees • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Undergraduate Degrees
B.A. in Dance
We integrate composition, training, and improvisation, while challenging students to locate dance culturally, politically, and historically.
Learn more
Apply
B.A. in World Arts and Cultures
We emphasize studies in arts activism, visual cultures, and critical ethnographies. Theory and practice emerge from culturally diverse artistic expressions.
Learn more
Apply
What Can I Do with a BA in World Arts and Cultures?
The UCLA School of the Arts and Architecture's Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance offers two undergraduate majors, one in Dance, the other in World Arts and Cultures, and both lead to a Bachelor of Arts degree. Both majors are designed to offer choice and flexibility while maintaining balance and rigor. Coursework for the majors is taken in conjunction with the general education requirements for the School of the Arts and Architecture and the University.
Comprehensive information on the undergraduate curriculum for current students can be found in the
2022-2023 Undergraduate Handbook
.
At the outset, students choose one of two majors:
Dance
or
World Arts & Cultures
.
If you have any questions after reviewing our website, please email:
wacdadmissions@arts.ucla.edu
.
Programs
Programs Overview
Undergraduate Degrees
Graduate Degrees
Apply
WAC Abroad
Programs Overview
Graduate Degrees
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top