WAC Abroad • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
WAC Abroad
Studying abroad offers invaluable opportunities for students pursuing a BA in World Arts and Cultures (WAC). By immersing themselves in global cultural contexts, students can broaden their perspectives and gain a deeper understanding of the social and cultural influences that shape artistic expressions internationally. Engaging with diverse international communities while studying abroad allows students to apply and expand their theoretical knowledge in real-world settings. This experiential learning not only enriches their artistic and cultural insights but also cultivates sensitivity to diversity, fostering a global awareness that is crucial in navigating the interconnected realms of art, community, and social contexts. Studying abroad becomes a transformative journey, aligning with the values of the WAC major by encouraging students to engage with different perspectives, promote cultural exchange, and contribute meaningfully to the global discourse on art and social justice.
WAC students have the ability to study at the plethora of programs offered by
UCEAP
or through UCLA’s
Travel Study Program
.
Students can complete GEs, Upper-Division Non-Major, and WAC elective requirements abroad. Students interested in studying abroad should make an appointment with an advisor within the School of Arts and Architecture’s,
Office of Student Services
(OSS). OSS advisors can help students select a program that is a good fit for their personal and academic goals.
Popular Programs:
The UC Centers
University of Bologna
University of Ghana, Legon
University College, Utrecht
Courses Pre-approved by Faculty to fulfill WAC Elective Requirements
Essential Resources:
UCLA’s Study Abroad Office
Study Abroad Scholarships
Study Abroad Clearance Form
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top