Alma Hawkins Visiting Chair • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Alma Hawkins Visiting Chair
About
Recipients
The Alma Hawkins Memorial Chair Fund was established in 2004 to enhance the teaching of dance and choreography in the department. In 2017, the fund was reorganized to support the Alma Hawkins Memorial Visiting Chair. For one academic quarter each year, we invite a distinguished, internationally renowned choreographer to join the faculty. They teach one project-based course, culminating in an end-of-quarter performance, and one special topics class, capitalizing on the artist’s expertise. WACD also sponsors a public presentation by the Hawkins Chair, which can take the form of a lecture, discussion, demonstration, performance or a combination.
The Hawkins chair expands our departmental offerings with specific attention to diversity of forms, geography, and points of view so that we may give our students, particularly the graduate students, a stronger sense of diverse global perspectives and extend the understanding of dance practices worldwide. The Hawkins Chair is a rotating position, so each year, students get to engage deeply with a different choreographer of extraordinary stature.
mayfield brooks
,
Alma Hawkins Visiting Chair, 2023
Jennifer Harge
,
Alma Hawkins Visiting Chair, 2022
Julie Tolentino
,
Alma Hawkins Visiting Chair, 2021
Jaamil Olawale Kosoko
,
Alma Hawkins Visiting Chair, 2020
Ligia Lewis
,
Alma Hawkins Memorial Visiting Chair, 2019
Salia Sanou
,
Alma Hawkins Memorial Visiting Chair, 2018
People
Our Community
Faculty
Staff
Lecturers, Visitors, Adjuncts & Affiliated
Graduate Students
Retired Faculty
Alma Hawkins Visiting Chair
In Memoriam
Retired Faculty
In Memoriam
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top