Project Scientist – Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA
Close
Login
Project Scientist
Project ScientistThe Department of Biological Chemistry
(https://www.biolchem.ucla.edu/)
, a basic science department within the UCLA School of Medicine, invites highly qualified applications for positions as an Project Scientist. Primary duties include leading a project on the development of a molecular diagnostic for Parkinson’s disease, using MRI.  Tasks include, but are not limited to:1)  supervising and training students in support of the project;2)  working with collaborators in project development and implementation of goals;3)  rationally designing fibril-capping peptides for alpha-synuclein fibrils;3)  developing and implementing large-scale screening methods for identifying novel binders of alpha-synuclein fibrils;4)  Performing surface plasmon resonance (SPR) experiments to determine binding constants of novel binding peptides;5)  Testing peptides for their ability to inhibit seeding of alpha-synuclein in HEK293T biosensor cells;6)  Conjugating peptides to magnetic nanoparticles to form functionalized magnetic nanoparticles (fMNPs);7)  Testing fMNPs in biosensor cells for their ability to colocalize with alpha-synuclein aggregates and produce a magnetic resonance signal;8)  Performing electron microscopy to confirm inhibition of fibril formation;9)  Purifying protein, as needed;10) Analyzing large data sets generated from next-generation sequencing (NGS);11)  Performing magnetic and flow cytometry cell sorting in the identification of novel alpha-synuclein fibril binders;12)  Implementing new techniques and collaborations, as needed, to further the goals of the project.13)  Writing project reports and presenting research findings at meetings 80% A. TECHNICAL RESPONSIBILITIES 1. Lead research project with alpha-synuclein fibrils and fibril-capping peptides in the development of a Parkinson’s disease diagnostic.2. Identify novel fibril-capping peptideserform surface plasmon resonance (SPR) binding studies on amyloid fibrils with fibril-capping peptides.3. Test functionalized magnetic nano-particles (fMNP) for binding of amyloid fibrils using SPR.Perform binding studies of fMNPs in specialized HEK293T cells.4. Optimize fibril-capping peptides, as necessary, to optimize binding and specificity.5. Perform toxicity testing of peptides and fMNPs on cells.6. Develop new techniques as needed.7. Record daily experiments and keep detailed notebooks.8. Present experimental results at weekly group meetings9. Prepare publications 15% B. ADMINISTRATIVE FUNCTIONS1. Attend weekly laboratory meetings.2. Abide by any procedural changes, policy changes, laboratory safety and general information.3. Order needed chemicals and supplies.4. Common laboratory duties for common equipment as assigned by PI5% C. CONTINUING EDUCATION1. Attend relevant scientific meetings and present research results Contact: Cindy Chau
cchau@mbi.ucla.edu
(310) 825-3754
Share via:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
More
Resources
Consignment Stockroom
Biological Chemistry Imaging Facility
Fluorescent Microscope Facility
Graduate Programs in Bioscience (GPB)
Biological Chemistry Courses
Travel & Entertainment Reimbursement
Safety
UCLA Lab Book
UCLA School of Medicine Safety
Department Safety Materials
EH&S
SDS List
On Site Supply List
JSA Master List
Useful Links
Campus calendar
Campus directory
Campus map
David Geffen School of Medicine
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Department of Biological Chemistry
615 Charles E Young Drive South
310 BSRB
P.O. Box 951737
Los Angeles, California 90095-1737
Phone: 310-825-6783
Office hours: Monday-Friday: 8am-5pm, Saturday-Sunday: closed
© 2024 Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA. All Rights Reserved. |
admin login
site by
Pendari
You can login using your social profile
Install social plugin that has it's own SHORTCODE and add it to Theme Options - Socials - 'Login via Social network' field. We recommend: Wordpress Social Login
or
Forgot password?
Remember me
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
More Networks
Share via
Facebook
X (Twitter)
LinkedIn
Mix
Email
Print
Copy Link
Powered by
Social Snap
Copy link
Copy
Copied
Powered by
Social Snap