Revisions to the CALL Appendix 40 | Academic Affairs and Personnel
Skip to Main Content
Academic Affairs and Personnel
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Revisions to the CALL Appendix 40
Ryan Parker St John
August 25, 2021
Office of the Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
To: Administrative Officers, Deans, Department Chairs and Directors
Dear Colleagues
We are writing to provide you with updated guidance on compensation for additional teaching during the academic year (
APM 661 (PDF)
,
662 (PDF)
,
663 (PDF)
and
The CALL Appendix 40
).
Compensation for additional teaching is a privilege and “should not interfere with normal University duties.” APM 662 states that the faculty member must carry the “full approved teaching load for the department, even if the faculty member normally teaches less.” Over the last several years, the UC Provost and Executive Vice President has upheld the requirement for the full teaching load to be met before any compensation is allowed.
After many discussions between UCLA, our sister campuses, and the Office of the President (OP), OP-Academic Personnel and Program informed the campuses that local exception processes may be established under APM 662-24 with being mindful of equity and our responsibility as a public institution.
Beginning Fall 2021, the Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel may approve, on an exception basis, compensation for additional teaching for a faculty member who receives course release for other university duties, such as a Department Chair, provided they meet their otherwise assigned course teaching load. Exception requests normally will be granted only upon showing that there is a temporary and/or specific academic need which cannot be satisfied by hiring part-time, temporary teachers or by reducing the faculty member’s normal teaching load in the future.  Approvals from the Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel must be obtained prior to the start date of instruction.
It is also important for chairs and Deans to monitor additional teaching responsibilities, especially for junior faculty, to ensure that that such additional teaching does not adversely affect research/creative work and University and public service.
The updated version of
Appendix 40
and the
Additional Compensation for Additional Teaching form (DOC)
can be found on the Academic Personnel Office website.
We appreciate the many conversations with faculty, chairs, program directors, and Deans as we worked with the Office of the President to find a path forward. If you have any questions please contact Assistant Vice Chancellor Erika Chau at
echau@conet.ucla.edu
.
Sincerely,
Michael S. Levine
Vice Chancellor for Academic Personnel
Related Articles
2023-24 Memo on Confidentiality in Personnel Process
Edward A Dickson Emeritus Professorship Award Recipients 2022-23
Carole E. Goldberg Emeriti Service Award Recipient 2022-23
The Constantine Panunzio Distinguished Emeriti Award 2022-23
Update on UC-UAW Contracts: Top-Ups for ASEs and GSRs
Contact Us
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use