Brand Guidelines | Identity | Department Logos
Log In
Logos and Marks
Department Logos
Logo System
Logo Colors
Minimum Clear Space
Minimum Size
Other Graphics
Do Not
Request Logos
The School or Department Logo — sometimes called a lockup or signature — combines the campus logo with the name of a school or department.
Logo System
Use of the standard department logo system is
required
for all academic and administrative units. Modifications are not permitted, but the logo system has a great deal of flexibility built in.
The Samueli School of Engineering adopted the department logo system in spring 2018. Their logos illustrate the options provided and the flexibility of the system.
Boxed or Unboxed
The preferred version of the school logo uses the boxed UCLA logo with the name “Samueli School of Engineering.” There’s an alternate version using the unboxed UCLA logo.
Full Name or Shortened Name
In certain contexts — for instance, messages for alumni, students or faculty of the school — the “School of Engineering” wording is dropped, so the logo reads simply “UCLA Samueli.” Those audiences already know that Samueli is an engineering school.
Emphasis on School or Department
Departments have logos with two versions of their names. One version emphasizes the school name, with the department in smaller type. The other version reverses that relationship, putting the school name in small type and maximizing the department’s name. That way either the school or the department can be highlighted as needed.
Other UCLA Systems
Please note that
UCLA Health
has additional graphic hierarchies on the clinical side to convey structure accurately. UCLA Athletics uses the
script logo
.
Logo Colors
Department logos typically appear in combinations of UCLA Blue and black, as shown. All black, all white and all blue department logos are also acceptable. Never use the department logo in gray or grayscale.
The boxed version of the department logo can be:
UCLA Blue and black on white background (preferred)
UCLA Blue and white on black or dark background
All black on white background
All white on black or dark background
The unboxed version of the department logo can be:
UCLA Blue and black on white background
All black on white background
All white on black or dark background
Always use the logo artwork from the brand bundle prepared for you by UCLA Marketing. Learn how to
request
one for your department below.
Minimum Clear Space
Never crowd department logos. Like the campus logo, they need clear space, “buffer” space, to achieve visual impact. Use the width of the letter “U” to gauge the amount of clear space that’s needed.
It’s fine to align the left hand edge of the logo with your text or image. The empty space in the margin will function as the necessary clear space.
Minimum Size
Never use department logos below the minimum size, measured vertically. Note that the unboxed two-line logo with “School of Engineering” needs more vertical space than the one-line version.
The one-line unboxed version should be at least 0.3” high in print, equivalent to 26 pixels high online. The two-line unboxed version should be at least 0.4” high in print, equivalent to 30 pixels high online.
The boxed versions should be at least 0.4” high in print, equivalent to 30 pixels high online.
Other Graphics
Campus units — including but not limited to centers, institutes and ORUs — who have previously used other unique logos as part of their visual identities can maintain the use of those existing graphics for a limited time while transitioning to the department
logo system
. Work with your
communications or marketing point of contact
to determine the timeline for that transition.
A wide range of
print templates
and
email templates
— stationery, event invites, newsletters and more — have been provided to guide your usage of the campus and department logos during this transition. Employ your existing graphic in the ample white space opposite the department logo available on any given template.
The default “GRFK” on these templates denotes the area where your graphic should be placed to ensure it stands out, without detracting from the department logo. Neither the height nor the width of the graphic may exceed the dimensions of the boxed UCLA logo; give the audience the visual reminder that your unit lives within a larger department and UCLA.
On applications where space is limited — on, say, a mug or a keychain — simply use the
campus logo
.
Do Not
Do not attempt to create your own department logos or variations of department logos. Please coordinate with your communications or marketing director to use existing logos until the official brand bundle is delivered.
Do not mimic the department logo style for other purposes such as organization or lab names.
Once the official brand bundle digital masters are delivered, do not alter them in any way.
Do not introduce outlines or outline type into the department logo.
Do not change the spacing between the campus logo and the name.
Do not alter the color or weight of department logo elements.
Do not alter the campus logo or rotate the department logo off the baseline.
Do not change the size of any element of the department logo.
Note:
These examples are illustrative only. Not one of these altered logos has ever been used by the Samueli School of Engineering.
Request Logos
Who Creates My Department Logos?
In addition to using a special branded version of Helvetica, school and department logos require individual fine-tuning by hand, including significant adjustments to spacing. For that reason, this site does not show the specifications for department logos. Instead, UCLA Marketing will create the digital masters for academic and administrative units.
Who Should I Contact?
For all academic and administrative units, please direct requests through your school or department’s communications or marketing office so that a consistent package of logos is created for the entire school or division at the same time.
For campus programs, initiatives and partnerships (when two or more campus units — schools, departments, etc., are coordinating an event, program, etc.), please contact your unit’s Marketing & Communications Director for assistance. For partnerships with third parties (any off-campus organization, company, etc.), please submit a request at
marks.ucla.edu
Download a list of Marketing & Communications Directors from schools and departments across campus
here
. Units within UCLA Health or David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA please visit
identity.uclahealth.org
. If your campus unit is not listed, please scroll down to submit a request online.
What Will I Receive?
You will receive a brand bundle including the following variations:
Boxed and unboxed campus logo
Blue, black, and white color versions
Three graphic formats: EPS, SVG and PNG
EPS for print (InDesign), engraving, banners
SVG for motion graphics and animation
PNG for online and Microsoft Office
HTML email headers
In some cases, name variations will be created — such as “UCLA Samueli” and “UCLA Samueli School of Engineering.”
Submit a Request Online
If you don’t know who to contact for your campus unit, you can fill out the form below to submit a request online:
First Name
Last Name
Title
Email Address
Phone Number
School, administrative unit or center/institute name (required)
Division, department or administrative subunit name (optional)
Department Name (optional)
Notes
Ignore this text box. If you enter anything into this text box, your message will not be sent.
Contact UCLA Marketing at
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
for related inquiries.
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility