Identity | Typography | Brand Guidelines
Log In
Typography
Karbon Font Family
Helvetica, Arial and Roboto Font Families
Typesetting
UCLA’s brand fonts are sans-serif type styles: We use Karbon for print and embedding on images and Helvetica/Arial/Roboto for digital applications. These fonts are clean, modern and timeless. They help to visually convey the
brand pillars
and
personality traits
of UCLA.
Karbon Font Family
About
Karbon is a distinctive geometric font, available in seven weights from hairline through bold. UCLA commissioned three additional custom versions: thin reveal, bold outline, and bold open outline.
Karbon Thin Reveal (lower case and numerals only)
Karbon Bold Open Outline (all caps and numerals only)
Karbon Bold Outline (all caps and numerals only)
Usage
Karbon is the primary font for
printed
materials or
embedding
within images online. It is required for all major marketing materials and recommended for other print pieces. On websites, Karbon can be used to create graphics but not as the primary font of the site without an annual financial impact to the department.
The custom fonts must be used sparingly and thoughtfully. Because of
accessibility
concerns, thin reveal should never be used online. Outline fonts can be used online only if the size is large enough to
provide sufficient legibility
.
How to Get the Font
Karbon fonts can be purchased commercially. UCLA Strategic Communications, Brand Marketing department provides a limited number of font licenses to qualified departmental users for use on print materials. Request them through the
UCLA Image Library
. Please note, UCLA does not buy fonts for vendors or freelancers. If a department wishes to use the Karbon webfont, they would need to make the purchasing agreement with the font house, pay the licensing fee, install and maintain the font going forward. There is no central fund for font web licensing.
From the
UCLA Image Library
site, request access to the Image Library.
Once approved, log into the Library using the given credentials. You may now view the images and fonts in the Library and download images with watermarks for FPO use.
For Brand fonts and hi-res images, submit request with details on where and how you intend to use the asset.
Once approved, you will receive notification from the Image Library Manager to download requested fonts or images.
In print, designers have the tools to fine-tune spacing between letters, words, and lines of type. Take advantage of that control — but use it to make the content appealing, not to crowd in more words.
Helvetica, Arial and Roboto Font Families
About
Helvetica is a standard font on Apple computers. On the PC platform, Arial is the preferred equivalent. For Android OS, Roboto is the preferred equivalent. These fonts were designed to be visually neutral, so they have fewer quirks than Karbon. These are better for web use, where the approach to typesetting needs to be kept simple.
Usage
Helvetica/Arial is the primary embedded font for online work. The stack is as follows:
Helvetica/Arial/Roboto in that order. This stack is required for all UCLA-branded websites.
A special branded version of Helvetica is used only for the
department logo system
.
Typesetting
In print, designers have the tools to fine-tune spacing between letters, words, and lines of type. Take advantage of that control — but use it to make the content appealing, not to crowd in more words.
Headlines in Karbon
Use Karbon Bold all caps for immediacy and emphasis.
For a more restrained look, use sentence case.
Use Karbon Thin Reveal carefully. Choose a large size, and don’t mix it with other versions of Karbon.
Use Karbon Bold Outline and Bold Open for emphasis only — perhaps to highlight an impressive number or ranking. Limit use to five or six words in these fonts.
If you use Karbon to create online graphics, be sure to provide accurate and complete alt text.
Do not use Karbon Open in graphic elements — it is not ADA compliant.
Body Copy in Karbon
Never use any of the custom fonts for body copy. Even in print they are only legible in display sizes. Karbon Regular is usually best for text.
Karbon needs generous leading, three to five points greater than the size of the type.
Never set body copy smaller than 10 point, even for young audiences. (For older audiences use 11 or 12 point).
Set body copy flush left, ragged right. Don’t center or justify.
Setting the first sentence of body copy in bold caps helps to invite the reader into the text. (But don’t combine a bold lead-in sentence with a subhead, the two will compete for attention).
Web Considerations
Remember that the browser, not the designer, controls the display of type. That’s why Helvetica/Arial is a good choice — these neutral type styles don’t require adjustments like extra line spacing.
Headlines should always convey the content hierarchy: think of your headlines and subheads as a content outline.
Use short copy and bulleted lists rather than big blocks of text. This is easier for all readers to scan, and it improves accessibility for users who depend on screen readers.
Webfonts are not recommended.
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility