The Powell Library Cookbook and Food Writing Collection | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Explore Collections
The Powell Library Cookbook and Food Writing Collection
physical
The Powell Library Cookbook and Food Writing Collection
A collection of modern cookbooks, histories of food and contemporary writing about food culture.
International & Area Studies
Social Sciences
Humanities
Life & Health Sciences
AskUs@library.ucla.edu
Browse Collection
Browse Collection
Using the Collection
The Cookbook and Food Writing Collection is located in the CLICC Lab, room 145, on the first floor of Powell Library. Anyone with a BruinCard or UCLA Library Card may borrow items from the collection. You can also
browse items in the collection
using our online catalog, UC Library Search.
More Information
Featured Collection Items
12
            images
About the Collection
The Powell Library Cookbook and Food Writing Collection is a resource for anyone in the UCLA community. Whether you’re a cooking novice, an expert chef or just curious about food, you’ll find books that spark your interest and inspire you to get creative in the kitchen. In addition to contemporary books full of recipes from around the world, you’ll find memoirs, food histories and explorations of a diverse array of culinary cultures.
This collection is part of the Powell Library Community Collections, developed in collaboration with student groups and campus partners. We welcome suggestions, book requests and ideas for new collections! Keep in touch at
powellcollections@library.ucla.edu
.
Services & Resources
default
Food Studies Research Guide
This research guide supports research and inquiry on food from diverse perspectives and disciplines.
default
UCLA Teaching Kitchen
A space to meet the campus community's needs in areas of nutrition education, food insecurity, culinary skills and community engagement.
Collection Endowments
Donor: Marcie Rothman
Marcie Rothman Endowment for Food Studies
Marcie Rothman's passion for cooking led her to ensure the field of food studies will continue to grow at UCLA.
Contact a Subject Specialist
Ashley Peterson
Research & Instruction Librarian, Media and Data Literacy
User Engagement
ashleypeterson@library.ucla.edu
(310) 206-1409
Book a consultation
Powell Library
Alexandra Solodkaya
Rothman Family Food Studies Librarian
User Engagement
asolodkaya@library.ucla.edu
(310) 794-2030
Book a consultation
Louise M. Darling Biomedical Library
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use