Alumni | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
Alumni
Mission
The UCLA Computer Science Alumni Advisory Board’s mission is to promote the communication, growth, and shared activities of the UCLA Computer Science alumni, faculty, and students.
The AAB members offer unique inputs to help the Computer Science Department understand the needs of industry, insights into how well the department is meeting the computer science needs of the future, and knowledge of current trends in the computing industry, including suggestions for keeping the curriculum and degree programs current. They also provide input to academics, research, outreach, advocacy, and development.
The members represent a cross-section of the alumni of the Computer Science Department since its foundation in the fall of 1969, and of the major areas of the computer science field.
The AAB meets annually, and following its mission, is involved in several activities, including the annual HSSEAS Open House, ongoing student mentorship, and the ABET Accreditation process every six years.
Bylaws
Membership
Membership is intended to represent the various computer science application areas, BS/MS/PhD degree holders, industries, and social diversity.
Members are expected to be influential, entrepreneurial, strong in networking, motivated, enthusiastic and able to represent the CSD AAB and further the aims of the AAB.
Membership is limited to approximately 15 members.
Members are elected for three-year terms, which may be renewed two times.
To maintain an active membership, members must attend the meeting, unless a legitimate reason for absence is provided.
Members are expected to participate, coordinate and help conduct various events and activities sponsored by the AAB, and to lead one event every three years.
Due to the voluntary nature of board membership, members may resign at any point.
Officers and Governance
The Chair and Vice Chair are elected in tandem for three-year terms and can be elected for a second term by the members.  If either one is unable to fulfill his or her duties, the members will elect a replacement at the next meeting.
A CSD faculty coordinator and the CSD chair serve on the AAB with voting rights. Other CSD faculty may also attend periodically or serve frequently as non-voting ex-officio members.
AAB members, the CSD chair, and the CSD faculty coordinator have voting rights to elect or remove the Chair, the Vice Chair, and new members of AAB.
Voting requests must be conducted in writing via email to each voting member. Election is by majority.
Self-nominations for Chair and Vice Chair are acceptable.
Membership Admissions Process
Candidates to the AAB are usually recommended by current AAB members and CSD faculty, although any computer science alumnus may apply for consideration.
To be considered as a new AAB member, the candidate must be introduced by an AAB member in writing or email with a detailed resume and qualifications to serve on the AAB, and verbally at a subsequent meeting, with the endorsement of another AAB member.  Each candidate is discussed at an AAB meeting before a decision is made by the Chair and Vice Chair to include him or her in a ballot, with the candidate’s approval.
Each candidate is encouraged to attend various AAB activities before the election date, so that members will become familiar with him or her.
Voting shall be conducted either during a face-to-face meeting or via email.
If a two-thirds majority supports the candidate, then the candidate is elected to a three-year term.
Additional Considerations:
Level of familiarity that current AAB members have with the candidate
Candidate’s leadership level of responsibility and ability to enhance the CSD relationship with industry and IR&D activities.
Candidate’s demonstrated track record of career success.
Diversity factors.
Meetings
AAB meeting are held annually, typically over dinner at UCLA.
The Chair establishes the date and agenda and conducts the AAB meetings.  The agenda must be set ahead of time with inputs from members, CSD faculty, students, and others.  Meeting minutes should be produced within a reasonable time after the meeting, and distributed to all AAB members and participants.
The Vice Chair’s duties include capturing minutes for AAB meetings and other events, conducting AAB meetings, should the chair be unable to attend, leading specific AAB break out team / events, etc.
Meetings may include leaders of CSD graduate and undergraduate student organizations, non-voting members, faculty, External Affairs staff, and representatives from corporate / business, depending on the agenda.
Information about the AAB is described on the AAB web site, including its mission, a listing of AAB members, past meetings with agendas and minutes, various activities, distinguished alumni, etc.
Activities
The AAB is involved in several activities, such as the HSSEAS Open House, student mentorship, fund-raising for the department, collaboration with faculty, student groups and labs, as well as other activities that will be approved by the Board.
Past AAB Board Meetings
March 2, 2023 Board Meeting
March 2, 2022 Board Meeting
February 10, 2021 Board Meeting
February 24, 2020 Board Meeting
January 28, 2019 Board Meeting
February 20, 2018 Board Meeting
May 25, 2017 Board Meeting
December 1, 2016 Board Meeting
May 24, 2016 Board Meeting
December 8, 2015 Board Meeting
June 4, 2015 Board Meeting
December 11, 2014 Board Meeting
June 5, 2014 Board Meeting
November 12, 2013 Board Meeting
June 6, 2013 Board Meeting
February 28, 2012 Board Meeting
May 10, 2011 Board Meeting
March 3, 2011 Board Meeting
November 19, 2010 Board Meeting
April 6, 2010 Board Meeting
December 10, 2009 Board Meeting
October 22, 2009 Board Meeting
Engineering Alumni Association
The UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science’s proudest assets are our more than 42,000 alumni. In Southern California and around the world, our alumni show tireless dedication to the school, community service and the profession of engineering.
The primary goal of UCLA Engineering Alumni Association (EAA) is to engage more alumni with the school in support of engineering education and research.  The EAA also helps promote interaction between alumni and students via sponsoring hands-on student projects; and nominates and helps select the alumni honored at the annual Engineering Awards Dinner.
There is more information on the
HSSEAS Alumni Website
.
Advisory Board Members
Alumni Awards
Distinguished Alumni
Update Your Info
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA