Department Announcements | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
UCLA ranked No. 1 Public University
Key takeaways UCLA pulls off a striking seventh consecutive top ranking, landing the No. 1 spot among public universities on U.S. News’ 2024 “Best Colleges” list. The campus was again ranked the No....
Read More
Class of 2023 Commencement Information
Apr 24, 2023
Congratulations to the UCLA Samueli Class of 2023! We are proud of your academic achievements and look forward to celebrating with you and your loved ones. Go Bruin Engineers! Find out more: https://commencement.seas.ucla.edu/
UCLA Engineering online master’s program ranked No. 1 by U.S. News & World Report
Jan 25, 2023
The online master’s degree program at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering has again been ranked No. 1 by U.S. News & World Report. In the publication’s 2023 list of best online engineering programs, UCLA moved up from the No. 2 spot last year, regaining the top...
UCLA Engineering launches free, immersive math program for high school students
Nov 15, 2022
A new program at the UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science aims to provide a robust STEM curriculum for students from underserved Los Angeles Unified School District high schools. The Mathematics Achievement Program, which is free of charge for...
UCLA ranked No. 1 public university by U.S. News & World Report for sixth straight year
Sep 13, 2022
As a first-generation student, Alvina Zhan knew that getting accepted to a top-tier university was only the first of her challenges. Zhan wanted to find a school that offered her a huge span of education opportunities while fostering her individual success the way a...
Class of 2022 Commencement Information
Mar 17, 2022
Congratulations to the UCLA Samueli Class of 2022! We are proud of your academic achievements and look forward to celebrating with you and your loved ones. Go Bruin Engineers! Barring any developments in public health protocols and university COVID guidelines that...
UCLA ranked No. 1 public university for fifth straight year by U.S. News & World Report
Sep 15, 2021
UCLA has again been named the nation’s top public university in U.S. News & World Report’s annual “Best Colleges” rankings, which were published today. This is the fifth year in a row UCLA has been ranked No. 1. “UCLA’s ranking as the top public university in the...
Professor Miryung Kim’s former Ph.D. student, Tianyi Zhang, is joining Purdue University as a tenure track faculty member
May 16, 2021
Professor Miryung Kim’s former PhD student Tianyi Zhang is joining Purdue University as a tenure track faculty member in 2021 Fall. Zhang was a PhD student in UCLA Computer Science from 2014 to 2019. Since then, he has been a postdoctoral fellow at Harvard University,...
UCLA Admission decisions for first-year applicants released
Mar 24, 2021
Admission decisions for first-year applicants are now available through the My Application Status website: https://t.co/f3PM59QcjN?amp=1 The UCLA Computer Science Department would like to congratulate and welcome our newest Bruins.
UCLA Computer Science Hosts Virtual Career Fair
Oct 16, 2020
On Tuesday, October 13, 2020, the UCLA Computer Science Department held a private Virtual Career Fair through the software platform Gatherly. The successful event brought the department affiliate members together with students, allowing them to build student-company...
« Older Entries
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA