CS Clubs and Associations | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
CS Clubs and Associations
Joining the Computer Science Department here at UCLA opens doors to a myriad of student clubs and associations that can amplify your educational experience and expand your horizons. These vibrant communities offer a unique chance to explore interests beyond your major, develop cutting-edge technologies, and engage in friendly competitions.
By becoming part of these dynamic organizations, you’ll not only deepen your technical knowledge but also foster crucial teamwork, communication, and leadership skills. Forge lasting connections with industry professionals, dedicated alumni, and esteemed faculty members, forming relationships that will undoubtedly enrich your life and career.
To search a list of all clubs on the UCLA campus,
click here
.
Association for Computing Machinery (ACM)
http://www.uclaacm.com
|
acm@ucla.edu
Association for Computing Machinery is the largest computer science student organization at UCLA.  We welcome students of all different backgrounds, interests, and skill levels to join our community and share in our passion for CS.  ACM is split into eight committees — each serving a different topic and mission.  Although some events “belong” to a committee, being a member of a committee is the same as being a member of ACM overall. Our events are open to everyone.
Association for Computing Machinery – Women (ACM-W)
https://women.acm.org/
|
w@uclaacm.com
ACM-W advocates internationally for the full engagement of women in all aspects of the computing field, providing a wide range of programs and services to ACM members and working in the larger community to advance the contributions of technical women.
exploretech.la
www.exploretech.la/
|
exploretech.la@gmail.com
exploretech.la is an annual event held at UCLA that aims to encourage and inspire high school students from underserved communities in the Greater Los Angeles area to pursue possibilities in computer science and technology. Through panels, interactive workshops, and booths representing UCLA student organizations as well as industry, they hope to make computer science and technology more accessible to local high school students.
UCLA Linux User Group (LUG)
https://linux.ucla.edu/membership/
|
board@linux.ucla.edu
LUG’s goal is to promote computer users freedom with Linux and other Free/Open Source software.
Upsilon Pi Epsilon (UPE)
https://upe.seas.ucla.edu/
|
upe.ucla@gmail.com
Upsilon Pi Epsilon is the International Honor Society for the Computing and Information Disciplines. UPE aims to maximize the personal and professional growth of students in the field of Computer Science. Their members contribute to the Computer Science community at UCLA by providing mentorship and career development opportunities for our peers. Their goal is to make their time spent with Computer Science at UCLA as valuable and rewarding as possible.
For other clubs and associations that are available in engineering, please go to:
https://samueli.ucla.edu/student-clubs-organizations/
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA