Faculty Recruitment – Academic and Staff Positions | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
Faculty Recruitment – Academic and Staff Positions
Faculty Recruitment 2022-2023
Tenure Track Faculty Positions
The Computer Science Department of the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science at the University of California, Los Angeles, invites applications for tenure-track positions in all areas of Computer Science. Applications are also encouraged from distinguished candidates at senior levels. Candidates must have a Ph.D. to fulfill the basic qualification requirement. Quality is our key criterion for applicant selection. Applicants should have a strong commitment both to research and teaching and an outstanding record of research for their level of seniority. Salary is commensurate with education and experience.
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, national origin, sexual orientation, gender identity, disability, age or protected veteran status. For the complete University of California nondiscrimination and affirmative action policy see:
UC Nondiscrimination & Affirmative Action Policy
.
The department is committed to building a more diverse faculty, staff and student body as it responds to the changing population and educational needs of California and the nation.
Applications can be found
here
.
Teaching Professor Faculty Positions
The Computer Science Department at the UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science invites applications for a Teaching Professor at all ranks (officially called Lecturer with Potential Security of Employment, Lecturer with Security of Employment, and Senior Lecturer with Security of Employment). This is a permanent position, analogous to tenure-track, with Academic Senate membership and an expectation of participation in governance and management of the university’s educational program through committee service, curriculum development, and administration.
The nominal teaching load is six courses per year on a quarter system. In addition to supporting the needs of the Computer Science Department, this position will also help to support the Data Science and AI tracks of the School’s Master of Engineering program through upper-division undergraduate offerings in those areas. Salary will be commensurate with experience and University of California pay scales.
Applications can be found
here
.
Academic and Staff Positions
The University of California has embarked upon a vigorous program to remedy imbalances in the racial and sexual composition of its student body and staff. The UCLA Computer Science Department is strongly committed to supporting this policy by making every effort to attract qualified minorities and women to its graduate student body, faculty, administrative staff and research staff. The department endeavors to widely publicize all openings for employment so as to bring them to the attention of interested minorities and women. In addition, potential students and employees falling into these categories are given special counseling and advice to facilitate their entrance into the university community. Interested women and members of minority groups are invited to contact the Chair or the Management Services Officer of the Computer Science Department for further information.
Faculty
To teach and conduct research in specialized areas of computer science, a Ph.D. in computer science and college-level teaching experience is required. In particular, primary areas of interest are artificial intelligence, computer system architecture & CAD, computational systems biology, graphics and vision, information and data management, network systems, software systems, and computer science theory. Most new faculty members begin their academic careers at the assistant professor level. Tenured positions of associate professor or full professor are only offered under very unusual circumstances to a candidate with exceptional research accomplishments. In-residence positions at all levels have the same duties and privileges as the unmodified title and must satisfy the same evaluation criteria, the difference being that there is no long-term commitment of state funds to the position.
Adjunct Faculty
This position requires distinguished accomplishments in computer science or related disciplines. Except in some exceptional cases, a Ph.D. in engineering or computer science is required. The position does not normally carry a salary—however, a stipend is granted for teaching regularly scheduled courses and a salary paid for participation in externally sponsored research grants.
Visiting Professorships, Lecturers, Post-Doctoral Scholars, Research Engineers
These positions require a doctorate or equivalent experience in computer science or related disciplines. Candidate may be on leave from an academic position in a recognized university.
Research Assistantships
A bachelor’s or master’s degree in computer science or related disciplines is required. Individuals must currently be enrolled in UCLA’s graduate program.
Teaching Assistantships
A bachelor’s or master’s degree in computer science or related disciplines is required. Individuals must be admitted into the graduate degree program in order to be eligible for appointment for the next academic year.
Research Staff
This category comprises numerous positions—from administrative staff who handle the department’s accounting, payroll, purchasing, undergraduate and graduate programs, and the overall management of the department—to the staff who are responsible for maintaining the department’s computer equipment and computing networks.
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA