Graduate Research | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
Graduate Research
Whether you’re a new grad student, a postdoc, a visiting graduate researcher, or a prospective applicant looking to see what research work we’re doing on campus, we’ve compiled several research resources in one place.
As a graduate student at UCLA, you will do more than learn about a field. You will shape research questions and forge new paths. You will discover, invent, and find solutions. You will have the opportunity to inspire the students whom you teach and the mentors who guide you. You will have the opportunity to develop as a communicator, teacher, collaborator and leader. And when you graduate, you will join the thousands of UCLA alumni who through their values, experience, talents and efforts are finding solutions to the problems facing our world today.
Robin L. Garrell
Vice Provost for Graduate Education
Dean, UCLA Graduate Division
Professor of Chemistry and Bioengineering
Visiting Graduate Researchers
Visiting Graduate Researchers
are domestic or international degree-seeking graduate students at their home institution who are invited to conduct short-term doctoral research or participate in a mentored or independent research project or master’s research collaborations with a faculty member at UCLA. The initial Visiting Graduate Researcher appointment can range from 3 weeks to 12 months; the maximum stay is 24 months.
Postdoctoral Scholars
A
Postdoctoral Scholar
(Postdoc)
is an individual who holds a doctoral degree and is engaged in advanced training and education, and conducts research under the guidance of a faculty member at UCLA. A postdoctoral scholar position prepares you for a career in academia, industry, government or the non-profit sector. Each year, UCLA hosts approximately 1,400 postdocs from across the world who play a critical role in furthering the University’s educational and research mission.
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA