Newsroom | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
IEEE Circuits & Systems Magazine: A Conversation with Professor Jason Cong
In a recent conversation with the IEEE Circuits and Systems Magazine, Professor Jason Cong, the Volgenau Chair for Engineering Excellence at UCLA's Computer Science Department, offered insights into...
Read More
The Sriram Lab Achieves Breakthrough Discovery in Understanding Complex Genetic and Disease Relationships
Dec 8, 2023
UCLA Professor Sriram Sankararaman and lead author Ph.D. student Boyang Fu have made a groundbreaking discovery in genetic research.Their recent publication “Fast kernel-based association testing of non-linear genetic effects for biobank-scale data” in Nature...
Two UCLA Computer Science Professors Named to Forbes 30 Under 30 List
Dec 1, 2023
UCLA computer scientists Aditya Grover and Saadia Gabriel have been named to Forbes’ 2024 30 under 30 list in the science category. Grover, an assistant professor who joined the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering in 2021, was selected by Forbes for his pioneer work in...
Amit Sahai Chosen as Fellow of the American Mathematical Society(AMS)
Nov 21, 2023
The American Mathematical Society (AMS) has chosen Professor Amit Sahai to become an AMS Fellow in recognition of his "outstanding contributions to the creation, exposition, advancement, communication, and utilization of mathematics." This is a terrific honor and a...
PhD Student Pan Lu Wins 2023 Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship
Nov 17, 2023
Pan Lu, a PhD student in the Computer Science department at UCLA, has been awarded the 2023 Qualcomm Innovation Fellowship (QIF), along with his team member Jiacheng (Gary) Liu, a PhD student in the School of Computer Science & Engineering at UW. The winning teams...
Professor Amit Sahai Wins Test of Time Award at FOCS
Nov 1, 2023
Foundations of Computer Science (FOCS) 2023, one of the top conferences in theoretical computer science along with the Symposium on Theory of Computing (STOC), has selected Professor Amit Sahai’s work on indistinguishability obfuscation to receive a Test of Time...
Professor Raghu Meka and student Zander Kelley Win FOCS 2023 Best Paper Award
Oct 31, 2023
In recent developments, UCLA Professor Raghu Meka and student Zander Kelley from UIUC achieved a breakthrough on a problem in arithmetic combinatorics that had stumped mathematicians for over 70 years. Their breakthrough has earned Meka and coauthor Kelley’s paper...
Jason Cong Receives the 2023 Outstanding Scientist Award from the Chinese Association for Science and Technology
Oct 30, 2023
Professor Jason Cong received the Outstanding Scientist Award from the Chinese Association for Science and Technology, USA (CAST-USA) at its 31st Annual Meeting and Global Innovation Summit on October 14, 2023, in Irvine, California. CAST-USA serves as a model for...
UCLA Student Harold Li won 2023 Google Ph.D. Fellowship
Oct 27, 2023
UCLA Ph.D. student Harold Li in the Computer Science department received the 2023 Google Ph.D. Fellowship for his work in Natural Language Processing. The Google Ph.D. Fellowship program was created to recognize outstanding graduate students doing exceptional and...
Professor Nanyun (Violet) Peng Wins 2023 Okawa Research Grant
Oct 17, 2023
Congratulations to assistant professor Nanyun (Violet) Peng who just received the 2023 Okawa Research Grant. Professor Peng is among the seven recipients from UC Berkeley, Stanford, UC Los Angeles, University of Southern California, Caltech, and Carnegie Mellon. The...
« Older Entries
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA