Research Areas | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
Research Areas
Artificial Intelligence
The computational study of intelligent behavior. This includes research in logical and probabilistic reasoning, machine learning, causality, heuristic search and combinatorial optimization, and natural language processing.
Kai-Wei Chang
Adnan Darwiche
Alyson Fletcher
Saadia Gabriel
Aditya Grover
Quanquan Gu
Cho-Jui Hsieh
Richard Korf
Baharan Mirzasoleiman
Judea Pearl
Nanyun Peng
Guy Van den Broeck
Computer System Architecture & CAD
The study of the structure and behavior of computer systems; development of new algorithms and computing structures to be implemented in hardware, firmware, and software; development of tools to enable system designers to describe, model, fabricate and test highly complex computer systems.
Jason (Jinsheng) Cong
Tony Nowatzki
Miodrag Potkonjak
Glenn Reinman
Majid Sarrafzadeh
Yuval Tamir
Blaise-Pascal Tine
Computational Systems Biology
An integrative approach to understanding biological systems, with research areas that span systems biology, bioinformatics, genomics, computational biology, and biomedical engineering.
Joseph DiStefano
Jason Ernst
Eleazar Eskin
Eran Halperin
Sriram Sankararaman
Graphics & Vision
The synthesis and analysis of images by computer. Graphics — rendering, motion capture, and geometric, physics-based and artificial life modeling/animation for the movie and game industries. Vision — texture, shape, motion and illumination, 3D reconstruction from images, object recognition, real-time vision/control for autonomous vehicles, visual sensor networks and surveillance, and medical image analysis.
Achuta Kadambi
Stefano Soatto
Demetri Terzopoulos
Bolei Zhou
Human Computer Interaction
A multi-disciplinary approach to study, design, and build interactive systems for diverse users (e.g., scientists, artists, journalists, students) working on a broad range of applications (e.g., research, policy, fabrication, software, AI). The goal of HCI is to empower more people to use technology to live according to their values.
Xiang Anthony Chen
Eunice Jun
Information & Data Management
The development of models, techniques and tools to improve the functionality, performance and usability of database management and Web systems that provide enabling technology for our information society — including Web search engines, digital libraries, big data, data mining, distributed databases, data stream management systems, and information systems for medicine and science.
Junghoo (John) Cho
Yizhou Sun
Remy Wang
Wei Wang
Network Systems
The study and design of distributed and often mobile systems — including computers, vehicles, people, and sensors interconnected by a communications network. This includes the development of novel applications that run on these systems, new protocols that enable various network components to work together, and techniques to optimize performance and to ensure reliability.
Omid Abari
Leonard Kleinrock
Songwu Lu
Mani Srivastava
George Varghese
Lixia Zhang
Software Systems
A broad array of ongoing research that spans the entire spectrum of software systems — including programing language design and implementation, software engineering, software verification, operating systems, and embedded systems.
Miryung Kim
Sam Kumar
Todd Millstein
Jens Palsberg
Yuan Tian
Harry Xu
Computer Science Theory
The use of simple and concise mathematical models to investigate computational questions and issues — including research in centralized, parallel and distributed models of computation; optimal approximate and randomized online algorithms; complexity, cryptography, games, auctions and mechanism design theory.
Eliezer Gafni
Raghu Meka
Rafail Ostrovsky
Amit Sahai
Alexander Sherstov
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA