Resources for Students | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
Resources for Students
Forms and Petitions for Graduate Students
For All Graduate Students
**2021-2022 Academic Year
Graduate Program Deadlines
**
Breadth-Requirement-Form
MS students – Due by the end of the 3rd quarter of study (must be completed by then)
PHD students – Due by the end of the 9th quarter of study
(and BEFORE taking Oral Qualifying Exam)
Change of Advisor Form
To officially change a student’s faculty advisor. Both present and proposed faculty members must sign form.
Filing Fee Application
Filing Fee FAQ’s
Due
the quarter prior to when the student plans to be either on Filing Fee, or enrolled and submitting the Capstone Project, M.S. Thesis, or doctoral dissertation.
Leave of Absence Request
To request a leave of absence from graduate study at UCLA. Students may request up to 3 consecutive quarters of leave, and no more than 3 quarters of leave in total. Due by the end of the 2nd week of the quarter.
Registration and Enrollment Petition
(UCLA Enrollment Petition)
To request
retroactive
registration/enrollment or
retroactive
changes to study lists only (add/drop courses, change grading basis, change variable units, etc.). Requires departmental approval and memo.
Teaching Apprenticeship Application
Sent out each year electronically
Petition for In Abstentia Registration
Used to request a reduction of the campus Registration Fee for students who need to be registered while studying or doing research outside of California. Includes information about eligibility requirements.
Withdrawal Form
For MS Students
Academic Advisor Consent Form
To officially name a faculty advisor. A faculty member verifies his/her consent to serve as an MS student’s advisor by signing this form. Due by the end of the 3rd quarter of study.
MS Proposed Program of Study
Due by the end of the 1st quarter of study.
MS Advancement to Candidacy Petition
MS Advancement to Candidacy Instructions
Due
the quarter prior to when the student plans to be either on Filing Fee, or enrolled, and submitting the Capstone Project or M.S. Thesis.
MS Capstone Project Results Form
Requires the approval and signatures of 3 faculty members. The capstone results form with all the signatures and abstract
are due no later than Friday of finals week of the quarter in which the M.S. degree is to be awarded.
Master’s Thesis Committee Nomination Form
Requires signed approval from committee chair and Graduate Vice-Chair. Includes regulations governing nomination of Master’s Thesis Committee.
Master’s Thesis Committee Reconstitution Form
Requires signed approval from committee chair and Graduate Vice-Chair.
Thesis Formatting and Filing Guide
Master’s Degree Petition
To request special action regarding fulfillment of degree requirements: transfer of credit, change in plan of study (comprehensive exam/thesis), change in mandatory grading basis, etc.
MS Application for Admission to PHD Program
MS to PhD Faculty Recommendation Form
The MS application for the PhD program, along with 3 departmental recommendations (at least one of which must include an additional letter) must be turned in during the student’s last quarter in the MS program.
For Ph.D. Students
Proposal of Fields for the Ph.D.
Field Chairs
Due by end of 9th quarter of study
(and BEFORE taking Oral Qualifying Exam)
WQE Paper Cover Page
Requires faculty advisor signature. Submit to the Graduate Student Affairs Office by announced deadline.
Oral Qualifying Exam (OQE) Checklist
Procedural instructions regarding the scheduling of and department protocol for the Oral Qualifying Exam (OQE).
Final Defense (FD) Checklist
Procedural instructions regarding the scheduling of and department protocol for the Final Oral Defense (FD).
Doctoral Committee Nomination Form
Requires signed approval from the committee chair and the Graduate Vice-Chair. Includes regulations governing nomination of the doctoral committee.
Leave the language requirement blank.
Doctoral Committee Reconstitution Form
Doctoral Committee Reconstitution Form Instructions
Requires signed approval from all original and new members.
Dissertation Formatting and Filing Guide
Forms for PhD adding MS
*IMPORTANT NOTE:
PHD students may submit the Doctoral Filing Application only once
. Therefore, it’s very important that students, under advisement from their academic advisor, plan accordingly.
Graduate Standards and Procedures
www.gdnet.ucla.edu/gasaa/library/spfgs.pdf
Other forms
Field Chairs
PhD Adding MS Forms
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA