The Sriram Lab Achieves Breakthrough Discovery in Understanding Complex Genetic and Disease Relationships | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
The Sriram Lab Achieves Breakthrough Discovery in Understanding Complex Genetic and Disease Relationships
Dec 8, 2023
UCLA Professor
Sriram Sankararaman
and lead author Ph.D. student
Boyang Fu
have made a groundbreaking discovery in genetic research.Their recent publication “Fast kernel-based association testing of non-linear genetic effects for biobank-scale data” in
Nature Communications
unveils the presence of complex genetic interactive effects in the development of complex diseases, a phenomenon that has been largely overlooked in previous research.
Traditionally, genetic contributions to diseases were viewed as majorly additive, with limited understanding of how genes interact with each other.
The Sriram Lab
has pioneered the exploration of these interactive effects through extensive studies, revealing a new dimension in genetic analysis. This finding opens doors to deeper insights into the genetic architecture of diseases, promising advancements in precision medicine and targeted treatments, and offers a promising avenue for synergizing genetic analysis with cutting-edge large language model techniques.
Computational genetics and modern Machine Learning/ Deep Learning have long been operated in distinct spheres. This separation stemmed largely from the absence of compelling evidence to justify the integration of complex models and hypotheses within computational genetics. Sankararaman’s work represents a pioneering effort in bridging these two fields. By demonstrating the tangible benefits and feasibility of combining these disciplines, The Sriram Lab has initiated a transformative journey towards a more integrated, innovative approach in genetic research.
This landmark study also involves Dr. Ali Pazokitoroudi and Zhengtong Liu fromThe Sriram Lab, as well as external collaborators Dr. Mukund Sudarshan and Professor Lakshminarayanan Subramanian from NYU.
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA