Two UCLA Computer Science Professors Named to Forbes 30 Under 30 List | CS
Select Page
Search for:
X
Two UCLA Computer Science Professors Named to Forbes 30 Under 30 List
Dec 1, 2023
UCLA computer scientists Aditya Grover and Saadia Gabriel have been named to Forbes’ 2024
30 under 30 list
in the science category.
Grover
,
an assistant professor who joined the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering in 2021, was
selected by Forbes
for his pioneer work in developing artificial intelligence models for scientific simulation. He has led the creation of the first AI-based weather and climate model, ClimaX, which can be used to make weather forecasts, analyze atmospheric data and predict climate patterns. He directs the
Machine Intelligence (MINT) Group
, where the researchers focus on developing AI systems that can interact and reason with limited supervision.
Gabriel
, who will begin her role as an assistant professor at UCLA Samueli in July 2024, was
named to Forbes’ list
for creating tools to improve online safety. In collaboration with Microsoft researchers, Gabriel developed (De)ToxiGen, a generative AI-powered software product that allows online content moderators to detect hate speech, false information and toxic language. She founded the Misinformation, AI & Responsible Society Lab to better understand how AI impacts human belief systems and to design systems that can recognize and function across cultural barriers. Currently, Gabriel is a faculty fellow at New York University.
In addition to Grover and Gabriel,
Shohini Kundu
— an assistant professor of finance at the UCLA Anderson School of Management — was also named to Forbes’ list
in the finance category
for her research on corporate finance and macroeconomics.
Published annually, the magazine’s list features innovators and visionaries under the age of 30 to highlight their accomplishments and contributions to society across a broad range of disciplines.
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA