Teaching Apprenticeships (TA) | sonnet
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Search
Teaching Apprenticeships (TA)
TA Application process:
If your course qualifies for a TA (minimum enrollment of 50 students), you will need to submit the Faculty TA Request form, emailed to lecturers each quarter, or by
emailing Lizbeth Del Rio
before week 2 of the quarter prior to your requested course.
The application allows you to specify a particular TA you prefer and skills/experiences needed for your courses that year.
If you have a specific TA in mind, please ask them to submit a Student TA Application form for the quarter, which they will receive via email from the Student Affairs Office. We do our best to accommodate faculty requests but cannot guarantee a specific placement since TA assignments depend on numerous factors, such as student's fellowships, availability, and scheduling.
You and your TA should
refer here
for detailed information about TA eligibility, resources, trainings and compensation.
Nursing 375:
If you are supervising TAs in a particular quarter, you will have a
Nursing 375 (TA Practicum)
course and TA(s) working with you must be enrolled in Nursing 375 each quarter.  At the end of the quarter, faculty must submit a S/U grade for their TA in Nursing 375, so this is a chance for you to evaluate your TA and provide feedback.   For more information about Nursing 375 and 495 courses, please see Graduate Division’s
Guidance on 375 courses
.
TA Evaluation by Faculty:
Prior to start of the quarter, you and your TA should review expectations and duties in great detail, including attendance expectations, exam proctoring and Finals Week schedule.
This
TA Evaluation Form
is to be completed by a faculty member together with their TA at the start of quarter, mid-quarter, and at the end of the quarter, to outline duties, set expectations, weekly hours, and provide consistent feedback throughout the quarter.
Your TA is expected to fill out this
TA Weekly Hours Grid
on a weekly basis to monitor and account for their time. Your signature should be obtained every week. TAs hired at 25% during the academic year may work up to 10 hours per week for a total of 110 hours for the quarter (including Finals Week and the grading period).
Resources and Questions:
The Center for the Advancement of Teaching
(CAT) has great resources for TAs and Faculty.  Please refer to
these Teaching Guides
for information about course and curriculum planning, improving teaching, grading, student writing, etc.
If you have questions about the TA application or to request CVs of students who applied, please contact
Lizbeth Del Rio
.
Questions about allocation of TAs should be directed to the PhD Program Director,
Wendie Robbins.
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login