Brand Guidelines | Application | Video | Elements and Styles
Log In
Video
Elements and Styles
Narrative Supers
Captions
Identifiers
Geotag and Timestamp
Logos and Marks
Full Style Kit
Do Nots
UCLA uses a range of visual elements and styles for video. Here you’ll find assets and guidelines for using graphics to more effectively tell UCLA’s story with video.
Narrative Supers
Supers are commonly used to convey information on social platforms, as many users view video without sound. A super is a visual element that brings text to the forefront of your video.
Copy
When writing supers, keep copy short and concise. Keep in mind the pace at which people read, and leave text on screen long enough for viewers to digest the information.
Typesetting, colors and placement
Supers should be set in Karbon Medium, upper and lowercase, justified left. UCLA uses three different options for supers: blue, white and no ribbon. Blue ribbon supers are the most branded with UCLA Blue. White ribbons allow the most easy-to-read option. When using the “no ribbon” option, make sure your video has enough background contrast to ensure readability and ADA compliance. Place supers at least 40px from edges of the screen,
              outside the caption area, and within the safe areas of various social channels.
Animation
Narrative supers can appear without any transition and stay long enough for viewers to read the text. To add motion, animate ribbons and supers from left to right. See the sample in your download for recommended movement and timing.
Included in your download:
Narrative supers in horizontal, vertical, square screens (AI)
Narrative super animation samples (MP4)
UCLA video style guide (PDF)
Download Narrative Supers (ZIP 13 MB)
Captions
Since closed captions are automatically generated by platforms such as YouTube and Facebook, UCLA Brand Guidelines apply only to open captions. There are two style options, both of which are ADA compliant. The first is a black ribbon behind the text, and the second uses a dark gradient background.
Always center the captions at the bottom of the screen. Font size and line breaks of the captions should be adjusted based on the video resolution and screen dimension. Depending on the background footage/image, the transparency of the black ribbon and the gradient background can be adjusted for best contrast and legibility.
To learn more about how captions work on specific platforms, visit the
Video Best Practices
section.
Included in your download:
Caption samples in horizontal, vertical, square screens (AI)
UCLA video style guide (PDF)
Download Captions (ZIP 1 MB)
Identifiers
An “identifier” displays a person’s name and title on screen. UCLA has three different visual options: The first, identifier over image, places the person’s name in bold white, with a secondary line which displays the person’s title. The other two identifier options utilize a white or blue
overlay box
.
Included in your download:
Identifier samples in horizontal, vertical, square screens (AI)
UCLA video style guide (PDF)
Download Identifiers (ZIP 1 MB)
Geotag and Timestamp
Geotags and timestamps indicate a specific location, date and time. These elements should be placed in the top corner of the frame for a minimum of three seconds. Depending on their importance to your storyline, it can remain on-screen for as long as you deem relevant to your storytelling.
When using geotag and/or timestamp, always set the graphic to avoid interfering with the main storytelling supers or overlapping any relevant imagery/graphic. Depending on the background footage/image, the gradient background transparency can be adjusted for best contrast and legibility. Also, for best storytelling action, depending on your footage/image, placement in the upper left-hand corner or right-hand corner.
Included in your download:
Geotag and Timestamp samples in horizontal, vertical, square screens (AI)
UCLA video style guide (PDF)
Download Geotag and Timestamp (ZIP 1 MB)
Logos and Marks
Videos are shared on social media often without context of where they originated.
Logo Watermark
One option is to use a small watermark logo in the top right corner of the frame, within the safe area. Make sure that the logo meets
minimum size requirements
. Watermarks should appear within the first 10 seconds of the video. Depending on the background imagery, adjust the opacity of the watermark for clarity.
Logo End Cards
There are two options to display the UCLA logo at the end of your video. The logo can fade in on a white or blue background or slide in more dynamically. Both options can display either the campus logo or your department logo, as well as provide a URL and/or call to action.
Included in your download:
Logo watermark sample (AI)
Fade-in end cards in horizontal, vertical, square screens (AEP, MP4, AI)
Slide-in end cards in horizontal, vertical, square screens (AEP, MP4, AI)
UCLA video style guide (PDF)
Download Logo Watermark and End Cards (ZIP 9 MB)
Full Style Kit
The UCLA Video Style Guide is available in a single PDF. Various video elements are available bundled in three graphic packages. Download the full style kit to get all the assets presented on this page.
Included in your download:
UCLA video style guide (PDF)
Blue ribbon graphic package
White ribbon graphic package
No ribbon graphic package
End cards
Download Full Style Kit (ZIP 11 MB)
Do Nots
Only use Karbon font
Avoid stacking captions more than two lines
Never place too many graphics on the same scene
Be mindful of placing graphics over key imagery
Don’t use white type over lighter imagery
Avoid low resolution/low quality visual assets
Avoid superfluous graphics that disrupt storytelling
Avoid special effects lacking production value
Never compose key elements outside of the live area
10889 Wilshire Blvd. | Ste 1400
Los Angeles, CA 90024
(310) 825-4321
brand@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Learn More
Glossary (PDF 52KB)
Resources
Related Websites
Permission to use UCLA Marks
Social Media at UCLA
UCLA Health Identity
UCLA Trademarks and Licensing
Report improper use of UCLA Marks
Stay Informed
Join the brand guidelines email list to hear about resources and updates
Please enter a valid email.
Your email was submitted. Please check your inbox to complete your registration.
©2024 Regents of the
University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility