Fingerprinting | Police Department
Skip to Main Content
Police Department
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Services
Fingerprinting
Fingerprinting services have resumed with limited availability as of July 6, 2020.
The UCLA Police Department Records Unit provides Live Scan/background check fingerprinting service for campus affiliates as well as the general public by APPOINTMENT ONLY. Walk-ins are not accepted. Appointments are scheduled every 15 minutes between 7:00 a.m. and 4:30 p.m., Monday through Friday (excluding weekends and holidays). Clients must arrive early or be on time to avoid rescheduling. Live Scan services are available by direct cost or by department recharge. All major credit cards are accepted.
If you are completing the live scan service for UCLA employment, please bring this form:
Request for Live Scan Service
. If you are completing the live scan service for another agency, please make sure you have the required paperwork from the agency you are completing the background check for. You will be required to have all paperwork, a valid form of identification and one form of payment (UCLA recharge, debit/credit or check).
Online Booking Now Available
This feature allows clients to go online to view weekly availability for fingerprinting services, and to create/reschedule/cancel appointments. A confirmation email will be sent once an appointment is booked.
Book an Appointment
The UCLA Police Department is located on the northwest corner of Charles E. Young Drive South and Westwood Plaza, just north of the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center. Live Scan clients may park in the one-hour visitor parking spaces located in the front of the police station. If no parking is available, clients may purchase temporary parking from the parking kiosk on Westwood Plaza just north of the police station. Short-term paid parking is also available at the top of Parking Structure 8.
The cost for Live Scan services includes a rolling fee (which varies per Live Scan location), plus applicable State and Federal charges. The rates are currently as follows
Rolling fee: $26
DOJ (Department of Justice) charge: $32
FBI (Federal Bureau of Investigation) charge: $17
All rates are subject to change depending on the type of application being processed. You will be advised of the cost once you arrive and information provided on your form has been entered into the computer. The cost for ink rolled prints is $26 for two cards and $10 for each additional card.
Reminder: Applicants who are required to be fingerprinted, either as a condition of employment or for a professional license application, must bring a valid driver license, state ID card, or current passport.
Group Fingerprinting
The UCLA Police Department Records Unit can conduct off-site fingerprinting for University departments or external entities for groups of 25 people or more, subject to availability based on location and distance.  Payment for off-site group fingerprinting is available by cash, check, or department recharge.
UCLA Police Department, Records Unit
Phone: (310) 20
6-8126
Fax: (310) 82
5-8696
Address
601 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1364
Business Hours
Monday 6:30 a.m. to 4 p.m.
Tuesday – Friday 6:30 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Station Hours
24 hours a day, 7 days a week
Related Links
Request for Live Scan Service (PDF)
Employment Opportunities
Mail code: 136408
Instagram:
@uclaems
601 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1364
Phone: (310) 825-1491
Anonymous Reporting Line: (310) 794-5824
Business Hours
Monday – Friday 8 a.m. to 5 p.m.
Station Hours
24 hours a day, 7 days a week
View map
Department Directory
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use