Graduate Program • UCLA Department of Psychology
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
About
Contact Us
Give
Home
»
Graduate Program
Graduate Program
Information about the UCLA Department of Psychology Graduate Research Program
The UCLA Psychology Department offers graduate Ph.D. training (
there is no separate M.A. program or Psy.D. program offered
) with area emphases in Behavioral Neuroscience, Clinical, Cognitive, Developmental, Health Psychology, Learning and Behavior, Quantitative, and Social Psychology. In all of these fields, the central objective is to train researchers dedicated to increasing the body of scientific knowledge upon which the discipline of psychology rests. The program is designed to prepare psychologists to function effectively as researchers, college and university instructors, and professional research psychologists. Rigorous scientific training is the foundation of the UCLA Psychology Ph.D. program. As part of this training, the Department encourages student participation in the activities of a number of related departments, schools, or organized research units of the University. For instance, the Brain Research Institute, the interdisciplinary Neuroscience and Cognitive programs, the Institute for Social Science Research, and the Neuropsychiatric Institute provide extensive research facilities for interested students. The
Fernald Child Study Center
, moreover, bolsters the department’s long-standing commitment to training in childhood learning and behavioral disorders. Other departmental resources include the Psychology Clinic. Our close working relations with local hospitals (the Veterans Administration), clinics, and institutes provide a unique opportunity for year-round training and research. UCLA’s exceptionally strong library system (the University Research, Biomedical and Research libraries, among others) perfectly complements the Department’s scholarly activities.
Graduates are prepared for careers in both academic and applied settings including positions at universities and colleges, research and governmental organizations and business and industry.
The Psychology Ph.D. program is one of
18 Ph.D. programs in the biosciences
.
UCLA
The University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) is one of the nine campuses of the University of California. Located in west Los Angeles, five miles from the Pacific Ocean, UCLA lies in one of the most attractive areas of Southern California. The campus is bordered on the north by the Santa Monica mountains and the new
Getty Museum
, and at its southern gate by Westwood Village, an entertainment magnet with theaters, restaurants, and the
Armand Hammer Museum
. The treasures of the
Los Angeles County Museum of Art
are a few miles to the east, as are the communities of Hollywood, Beverly Hills, and the downtown business and entertainment districts.
Department of Psychology
1285 Franz Hall, Box 951563
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-2961
UCLA Home
College
Life Sciences
Department Directory
Department Calendar
Course Login
IT Helpdesk
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use