Undergraduate Program • UCLA Department of Psychology
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
About
Contact Us
Give
Home
»
Undergraduate Program
Undergraduate Program
How to Contact an Undergraduate Advisor 🔗
.
Welcome to the Department of Psychology!
Here at UCLA, we present psychology as a scientific discipline that employs systematic methods of inquiry to study and explain human and animal behavior, both normal and abnormal, in terms of a variety of underlying variables, including neural, physiological, and cognitive processes; developmental factors and individual differences; and social and interpersonal influences and contexts.
The structure of the undergraduate curriculum has been designed to reflect the extensive breadth of psychology in terms of both the range of behavioral phenomena studied and the variety of methods and theoretical approaches employed, while allowing students to pursue in greater depth those areas in which they become most interested. Beyond basic core courses, students can take many specialized courses in areas such as psychobiology, animal behavior, learning and memory, motivation, perception, cognition, measurement, personality, and clinical, social, developmental, community, and health psychology. The curriculum also provides excellent opportunities for research experience, either in the form of laboratory courses or by participation with faculty and graduate students in a wide variety of research projects.
A choice of three undergraduate majors is offered: Psychology (B.A.), Cognitive Science (B.S.) and Psychobiology (B.S.). While the majors overlap in certain fundamental and basic knowledge bases, they differ considerably in their focus (i.e., the extent to which certain areas of psychology and related disciplines are studied) and in terms of the different student interests and needs they satisfy. We also offer a minor in Applied Developmental Psychology.
Admission to UCLA
Freshman and transfer admission to UCLA is handled solely by the
Office of Undergraduate Admission
and all inquiries should be directed there. At any time in your application process, you may
check course requirements for our majors
. Transfer students may also check course equivalents between UCLA and many community colleges via
Assist.org
or Transferology.
Department of Psychology
1285 Franz Hall, Box 951563
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-2961
UCLA Home
College
Life Sciences
Department Directory
Department Calendar
Course Login
IT Helpdesk
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use