Tenure-Track Faculty Position – Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA
Close
Login
Tenure-Track Faculty Position
The Department of Biological Chemistry (
https://www.biolchem.ucla.edu/
), a basic science department within the UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine (DGSOM), is seeking applicants with a PhD and/or MD degree (or equivalent) for a tenure-track/tenured faculty position in any broadly-defined area of biochemistry, molecular, cell, developmental, neuro or cancer biology. Although preference will be given to applicants at the Assistant Professor level, exceptional candidates at the level of Associate or Professor are also encouraged to apply. Applicants should have an excellent record of creative research accomplishments. The new faculty member will benefit from the stimulating and supportive environment of outstanding colleagues across the UCLA campus and the opportunity for collaborations within and across disciplines. This individual will be expected to develop an innovative research program addressing fundamental biological questions and to contribute to departmental teaching.
The deadline for submission of applications is November 9, 2023
. Applicants should submit a full curriculum vitae, a description of their research plan (3-page limit excluding references), statement on contributions to equity, diversity and inclusion, and three letters of reference electronically at
https://recruit.apo.ucla.edu
under the “Biological Chemistry” heading (posting # JPF08594). References may submit their letters directly through the same website.
Finalists will be invited to interview onsite during a symposium scheduled for February 8-9, 2024.
All aspects of searches are confidential and all candidates are expected to review and abide by UC Regents Policy 1111 on Statement on Ethical Values and Standards of Conduct
https://regents.universityofcalifornia.edu/governance/policies/1111.html
The University of California seeks to recruit and retain a diverse workforce as a reflection of our commitment to serve the people of California, to maintain the excellence of the University, and to offer our students richly varied disciplines, perspectives and ways of knowing and learning. The position is state-supported with a guaranteed salary base, outstanding fringe benefits, and substantial start-up funds.
The shared values of the DGSOM are expressed in the Cultural North Star, which was developed by members of our community and affirms our unswerving commitment to doing what’s right, making things better, and being kind. These are the standards to which we hold ourselves, and one another. Please read about this important DGSOM program at
https://medschool.ucla.edu/cultural-north-star
The David Geffen School of Medicine anti-racism roadmap is our co-created path to ensuring racial justice, equity, diversity and inclusion. We are committed to actively dismantling structural racism in our organization as described in more detail at:
https://medschool.ucla.edu/diversityanti-racism-roadmap
The University of California is an Equal Opportunity/Affirmative Action Employer advancing inclusive excellence. All qualified applicants will receive consideration for employment without regard to race, color, religion, sex, sexual orientation, gender identity, national origin, disability, age, protected veteran status, or other protected categories covered by the UC nondiscrimination policy. UC Nondiscrimination & Affirmative Action Policy (
https://policy.ucop.edu
).
Share via:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
More
Resources
Consignment Stockroom
Biological Chemistry Imaging Facility
Fluorescent Microscope Facility
Graduate Programs in Bioscience (GPB)
Biological Chemistry Courses
Travel & Entertainment Reimbursement
Safety
UCLA Lab Book
UCLA School of Medicine Safety
Department Safety Materials
EH&S
SDS List
On Site Supply List
JSA Master List
Useful Links
Campus calendar
Campus directory
Campus map
David Geffen School of Medicine
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Department of Biological Chemistry
615 Charles E Young Drive South
310 BSRB
P.O. Box 951737
Los Angeles, California 90095-1737
Phone: 310-825-6783
Office hours: Monday-Friday: 8am-5pm, Saturday-Sunday: closed
© 2024 Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA. All Rights Reserved. |
admin login
site by
Pendari
You can login using your social profile
Install social plugin that has it's own SHORTCODE and add it to Theme Options - Socials - 'Login via Social network' field. We recommend: Wordpress Social Login
or
Forgot password?
Remember me
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
More Networks
Share via
Facebook
X (Twitter)
LinkedIn
Mix
Email
Print
Copy Link
Powered by
Social Snap
Copy link
Copy
Copied
Powered by
Social Snap