Anti Racism Resources - Grassroots Initiatives | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Grassroots Initiatives
Find information about anti-racism programs and initiatives including the student-led initiative on the creation of a Racial Justice Report Card, our commitment to Restorative Justice, and a pilot anti-racism podcast discussion circle, led by staff members.
Spotlight on Grassroots Initiatives
Student-led Initiative
Racial Justice Report Card
The Racial Justice Report Card (RJRC) is a student-written report assessing fourteen areas of academic medical centers, including diversity, curriculum, climate, treatment of workers, policing, research protocols, and racial integration of clinical care sites. Today, over 25 medical schools have RJRCs, including Harvard, Columbia, Duke, UCSF, UC Davis, and Johns Hopkins University.
Learn More About RJRC
Staff-led Initiative
Staff Anti-Racism Podcast Circles
During 10 weekly sessions, participants of Anti-Racism Podcast Circles discuss the podcast,
Be Antiracist with Ibram X. Kendi
.
Be Antiracist
imagines what an antiracist society might look like and how we all can play an active role in building one.
Program Goals
Develop knowledge and skills in the pursuit of being Antiracist
Create a safe space to share, make mistakes, and un-learn and re-learn truths
Foster intersectional community at DGSOM
Interested in starting your own anti-racism podcast circle? Download the materials in Box.
Podcast Circle User Guide
If you need help implementing the program, contact the staff leaders of the initiative (pictured from left to right):
Stephanie Fisher
Mia McGill
Lindsay Herman
Amanda Fakih
Resident-led initiative
Anti-racism Learning Group, Department of Psychiatry
The Antiracism Learning Group (ARLG) is an educational intervention that focuses on group processing and learning in parallel with individual reading and reflection. This method facilitates relationship-building along with individual learning, reflecting, and processing. This intervention is centered on the workbook
Me and White Supremacy
by Layla Saad, a text that is informed by scholarship of primarily Black thinkers. The book is divided into 28 topics and each section contains conceptual reading, examples, and reflection questions. Topics include: white privilege, white silence, tone policing, white exceptionalism, anti-blackness towards Black men, women, and children, cultural appropriation, allyship, white centering, tokenism, and navigating power dynamics that arise when committing to antiracism work.
UCLA Psychiatry Office of JEDI
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login