Racial Justice Report Card | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Racial Justice Report Card
A Student-Written Report
The Racial Justice Report Card (RJRC) assesses areas of academic medical centers, including diversity, curriculum, climate, treatment of workers, policing, research protocols, and racial integration of clinical care sites.
Today, over 25 medical schools have RJRCs, including Harvard, Columbia, Duke, UCSF, UC Davis, and Johns Hopkins University.
The original RJRC was created by the White Coats for Black Lives (WC4BL) national working group in 2018 and recruited medical schools across the country to gather data and produce a report. The Racial Justice Report Card is a WC4BL initiative that seeks to articulate specific ways in which academic medical centers can promote anti-racism, facilitate efforts to organize change at the academic medical center, and ensure public accountability for promoting anti-racist medical practices.
Racial Justice Report Card 2021-2022
Racial Justice Report Card 2021-22
The David Geffen School of Medicine (DGSOM) at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA) has been actively increasing its commitment to bolstering justice, equity, diversity, and inclusion through research and practice. This includes the development and implementation of a range of structural changes and programmatic initiatives across the domains of research, teaching, clinical care and community engagement. Although Los Angeles is often celebrated as one of the most racially and ethnically diverse cities in the country, it is deeply troubled by health inequities.
One tool to help illuminate gaps between current and desired organizational performance is the Racial Justice Report Card (RJRC). The RJRC, first implemented in 2015, is an important tool to help give medical schools tangible methods through which they may become more anti racist. Since its inception, over 25 academic medical centers nationally have participated.  Unfortunately, while other premier academic medical centers have published Racial Justice Report Cards, DGSOM has not. The UCLA Student WC4BL Chapter is pleased to present its inaugural RJRC and, ultimately, an advancement of anti-racism praxis within the DGSOM community.
At the David Geffen School of Medicine, we stand in solidarity with all oppressed communities.  For this report card, we will only report on those criteria and standards that are consistent with our mission, goals, and values.  As such, we will not consider any standards that are harmful to a group or our community.  To this end, we have deleted anti-Israel standards from our DGSOM racial justice report card.  We see participation in this student-run initiative as part of our educational mission and recognize this process as a powerful opportunity for growth and development.
Next Steps
The RJRC team is recruiting! We will be generating a new report to assess DGSOM and UCLA Health for the 2023-2024 cycle. This report will be tailored to the needs and values of the UCLA community with input from our students and stakeholders. The 2023-2024 RJRC will advance the work of the 2021-2022 RJRC and will assess implementation of recommendations. In addition, this report will spotlight areas of growth for DGSOM and UCLA Health not encapsulated by the previous report. Paid student positions available!
If interested in joining the team, or if you’d like to provide feedback on the RJRC, fill out this form.
Submit Feedback and Questions
About the Racial Justice Report Card
RJRC Background
25+ medical schools
utilize the RJRC evaluation, as of 2020
Gives tangible ways for
medical schools to improve and to become more anti-racist
Themes utilized to assess medical school, residency, and hospital:
Policing and prison abolition
Redistribution of wealth, health and education to BIPOC communities
BIPOC community control and self determination
White Coats for Black Lives (WC4BL) History
Medical school campuses remained silent and detached.
Medicine is not immune to the racism
WC4BL created on Martin Luther King, Jr. Day, 2015
DGSOM student leaders started a WC4BL chapter in 2015, but this was halted as there was no faculty support to help advance agenda
Mission Statement of the DGSOM WC4BL Chapter
Eliminate racism in the practice of medicine.
Recognize racism as a threat to the health and well-being of communities of color.
Create a safe space for students to engage in conversations surrounding racial and social justice in medicine within medical school.
Promote racial justice in DGSOM education by advocating for the representation and visibility of traditionally underrepresented students at the DGSOM MD program.
Goal of WC4BL
Ultimately, WC4BL hopes that the Racial Justice Report Card will highlight best practices and encourage academic medical centers to direct their considerable power and resources toward addressing the needs of our patients and colleagues of color.
RJRC Example Metrics
These are sample medical school metrics for recruitment and admissions.
Police and Prison Abolition
In alignment with the national Ban the Box movement, applicants to medical school are not asked to disclose whether or not they have a history of criminal punishment system involvement.
Undocumented students are encouraged to apply to the medical school, and have access to institutional grants and loans to cover the full cost of attendance.
Redistribution
Black, Indigenous, and Latinx students and faculty are overrepresented in the medical school class and faculty at all levels by at least a factor of two relative to their share of the U.S. population
At least 40% of the incoming medical students received or would have been eligible to receive Pell grants.
Students of color who participate in recruitment and other admissions activities are compensated for their time at a rate at least equal to the local living wage.
The medical school publishes an annual report on the race and gender distribution of financial aid funds.
Community Control and Self-Determination
Black, Indigenous, or Latinx alumni of local public schools comprise at least 10% of enrolled medical students.
All applicants participate in interviews with local BIPOC local leaders, who are compensated at a rate equal to or greater than the local living wage.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login