The Safe Zone for Students, Staff, & Faculty | UCLA School of Nursing
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
Alumni
Students
The Safe Zone for Students, Staff, & Faculty
If you or someone you know is in danger or needs immediate help, please call 911.
The
Safe Zone
is sponsored by the UCLA School of Nursing's Office of Equity, Diversity & Inclusion.
The
Safe Zone
is a space where students, staff, and faculty are supported and valued when dealing with difficult academic or interpersonal conflicts without the fear of being biased, assumed, and judged. In the Safe Zone, students, staff, and faculty can find a listening ear.
The
Safe Zone
is not intended to replace (1) academic advisement for students provided by a student's faculty and/or clinical advisor, (2) counseling by the
UCLA Counseling and Psychological Services
, and (3) assessing and investigating reports of discrimination or harassment based on race, ancestry, national origin, disability, religion, age, and other categories protected by law and University policy brought against academic personnel and staff and assessing and investigating reports of gender discrimination, sexual harassment, and sexual violence brought against any member of the campus community by the UCLA Office of Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion (
https://equity.ucla.edu/report-an-incident/
).
All UCLA employees, including student employees
, have the
duty to report
allegations of discrimination and/or harassment based on all protected categories as well as sexual violence and sexual harassment.
The
Safe Zone
is designed to support all UCLA School of Nursing students, staff, and faculty. The UCLA School of Nursing is committed to providing a community for all to feel safe and foster an environment of belonging in accordance with the
values of the School of Nursing
.
Student's Safe Zone
Champions
Mark  Covin, EdD
Director of Recruitment, Outreach & Admissions
Janet I. Kang
Assistant Director, Student Services
Staff & Faculty Safe Zone Champion
Nalo Hamilton, PhD, MSN, APRN-BC
Associate Dean for Equity, Diversity, & Inclusion; Associate Professor
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Tiverton Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
sonsaff@sonnet.ucla.edu
Information
Faculty Directory
Nursing at UCLA Health
Useful Links
Current Student Website
SON Intranet
IT Support
SON Email
eValue Login
Getting Around
Campus Map
Parking Information
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login