Careers in Student Health | UCLA Student Health
Skip to Main Content
Search Website
Search
Search Website
Search
Careers in Student Health
About The Ashe Center
The Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center (The Ashe Center) is devoted to providing quality, accessible, state-of-the-art healthcare and education to support the unique development of UCLA students.
Our comprehensive services include Primary Care, Gynecology Services, Immunizations, Travel Medicine, Physical Therapy, Specialty Clinics, Radiology & Laboratory, and Acupuncture – all under one roof! Students can schedule appointments online, in person, or by phone and can communicate with their primary care providers via secure electronic messaging. After hours, students can call our 24/7 Nurseline for advice and information or log in to LiveHealth Online for a telemedicine visit on their mobile device.
The Ashe Center is also pleased to offer additional services in the Ackerman Student Union, a full-service optometry center, U See LA Optometry, on Ackerman B-Level and the Bruin Health Pharmacy (Ackerman A-Level).
We are committed to helping students “shine, inside and out.” From eating well and staying active to managing stress, The Ashe Center focuses on student wellbeing by providing ongoing wellness workshops, participating in health-related outreach events on campus. It’s no wonder that UCLA's student health center and its suite of services consistently rank as best in the nation. Most recently, the wellness fintech brand Ness recently awarded UCLA and The Ashe Center as the
healthiest college in the state of California
.
Our Mission
The mission of The Ashe Center is to support UCLA students in the successful attainment of their educational goals through the personalized delivery of accessible, high-quality health and wellness services, rendered with kindness and competence, by diligent, dedicated professionals.
Available Positions
The following positions are currently accepting applications. To learn more about each position, click on each card to access the Careers listing at ucla.edu.
LVN Supervisor
Requisition Number: 40180
Job Title: LVN SUPV 1
Application Deadline: 02-29-2024
Senior Vocational Nurse
Requisition Number: 40183
Job Title: VOCATIONAL NURSE, SENIOR
Application Deadline: 02-29-2024
LVN Supervisor
Requisition Number: 40023
Job Title: LVN SUPV 1
Application Deadline: 02-29-2024
Per Diem Vocational Nurse
Requisition Number: 40392
Job Title: VOCATIONAL NURSE, PER DIEM
Application Deadline: 02-29-2024
Senior Licensed Vocational Nurse
Requisition Number: 39755
Job Title: 	VOCATIONAL NURSE, SENIOR
Application Deadline: 02-29-2024
Per Diem Nurse
Requisition Number: 39799
Job Title: 	PER DIEM CLINICAL NURSE, IMMUNIZATION AND AMBULATORY CARE
Application Deadline: 02-29-2024
Why Work at The Ashe Center?
"The Ashe Center is a model of best practices among student health centers across the nation. We believe in relationship-centered care that is holistic and healing to help students achieve academic success and lifelong wellness. Our team is innovative, collaborative, diverse and passionate.  We make a big impact and have fun while doing it. Join our efforts to build a resilient community at UCLA, so each of us can rise up to be stronger, healthier, happier, better."
Dr. Chaitali Mukherjee
Executive Director, UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health & Wellness Center
Working at UCLA
Limitless Opportunities
UCLA is one of the five biggest employers in Los Angeles. Out of 42,000 full- and part-time jobs here, you will find a place for your talent to flourish. You’ll have the flexibility to switch roles, departments or even take on new challenges at other campuses within the UC system.
Work With a Purpose
Don’t come to UCLA for a job. Come to build a career and join a family that is working together to propel the nation’s No. 1 public university into its second century.
Our Values
We commit ourselves to upholding the highest ethical standards. Respect, accountability, integrity, service and excellence make up our
True Bruin Values
.
Diversity
We welcome people of all backgrounds to join our community and contribute in a discrimination- and harassment-free workplace. Whether you’re just starting your career or looking to shift gears later on in your professional journey, you are encouraged to join us.
We Invest in You
We invite UCLA employees to take advantage of the wide array of development programs on offer. Build your skills — from workshops and career programs to management development and online training. Continue learning on campus or at
UCLA Extension
at reduced-fee rates.
Balance
UCLA dedicates a number of services and resources to helping you maintain a healthy
work-life balance
.
Working at UCLA: Purpose, Possibilities, Perks
Benefits
As an employer, UCLA offers an incredible benefits package: comprehensive medical coverage, generous retirement options, paid holidays and vacation, and other programs that promote both your professional growth and personal well-being.
Enroll in one of our medical plans. You’ll get coverage for medical care and prescriptions. Preventive care is 100 percent covered in-network.
Dental and vision coverage and life insurance are all part of the standard benefits package.
Child care resources
and the local school
TIE-INS program
support UCLA employees with families.
UCLA is expanding its existing lactation rooms to provide
nursing mothers
the resources they need.
UCLA Recreation offers the
FITWELL Program
, which includes free classes, to promote healthy lifestyles for faculty and staff. You can access 16 fitness centers and recreational facilities.
Explore Benefits
Contact Human Resources
If you have any additional questions about our job openings, please do not hesitate to reach out to our HR team.
Mack Alves-Morgan
Manager of Human Resources
T: (310) 206-3746
Maria Bautista
Human Resources Specialist
T: (310) 206-6646
Contact Ashe Center
221 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-4073
Fax: (310) 206-8012
Contact
Stay in the know
Facebook @uclastudenthealth
Instagram @uclaashecenter
LinkedIn @ucla-ashe-student-health-center
Sydney Health Mobile App