COVID-19 Services: Testing, Tracing & More | UCLA Student Health
Skip to Main Content
Search Website
Search
Search Website
Search
COVID-19 Services: Testing, Tracing & More
If you are experiencing symptoms consistent with COVID-19 or have had close contact with someone who was diagnosed with the virus, contact the Exposure Management Team (EMT). If you tested positive for COVID-19,
do not wait for a response to your message,
start isolation immediately
and a member of our team will follow up within a few business days.
The EMT member will help you determine the need for testing, treatment, quarantine, and/or isolation. Please self-isolate until after you have spoken with someone from The Ashe Center.
If you are experiencing symptoms:
Students who develop symptoms including
fever, cough, or shortness of breath
, should contact The Ashe Center immediately at (310) 206-6217 to determine the need for diagnostic testing and treatment. Please self-isolate, until after you have spoken with someone from The Ashe Center.
To contact the Exposure Management Team via message:
Contact Exposure Management Team
If you tested positive:
Please isolate immediately and refer to
UCLA COVID-19 Isolation & Quarantine Protocols.
Do not wait for a response to your message. Start isolation immediately and contact the Exposure Management Team
via email at
exposuremanagementteam@ashe.ucla.edu
or by phone at (310) 206-6217 to be given isolation instructions and the earliest date you can return to campus safely.
More info and Exposure Management FAQs
EMT Hours of Operation
Mon - Fri: 8am - 4:30pm
Closed Weekends & University Holidays
What to Expect
When Contacting Exposure Management Team:
If you are leaving a voicemail, please speak loud and clearly, and be sure to include your full name, UID number, and a callback number where we can reach you.
A member of our staff will contact you back within as soon as possible to collect information about your symptoms, test date, and close contacts.
Note: We can only provide general information to parents and families. Students with COVID-19 concerns must call directly to discuss their protected health information.
Local COVID-19 Testing Locations
County of Los Angeles COVID-19 Testing
911 COVID Testing
COVID-19 Testing Options at UCLA
Location
Ashe Center
Fees
See The Ashe Center centralized Fees page for a list of fees associated with COVID-19.
COVID Antibody Testing
COVID PCR Testing
COVID ONLY Rapid Antigen POCT
Flu & COVID Combined Rapid POCT
COVID Fees at The Ashe Center
Additional COVID-19 Services
COVID-19 Testing
The Ashe Center offers PCR and Antibody Testing for COVID-19. Schedule an appointment or request a PCR test through our Patient Portal today.
COVID-19 Vaccine Hub
Instructions and information on what steps to take to schedule your COVID-19 vaccine, as well as frequently asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine.
COVID-19 Vending Machines
Information on testing via COVID-19 self-test vending machines located conveniently across UCLA campus.
Exposure Management FAQs
Please read through the newest frequently asked questions about testing, vaccination, or exposure to COVID-19.
Contact Ashe Center
221 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-4073
Fax: (310) 206-8012
Contact
Stay in the know
Facebook @uclastudenthealth
Instagram @uclaashecenter
LinkedIn @ucla-ashe-student-health-center
Sydney Health Mobile App