Services | UCLA Student Health
Skip to Main Content
Search Website
Search
Search Website
Search
Services
The Ashe Center offers a variety of services to support the diverse UCLA campus community with comprehensive healthcare services & education. During the COVID-19 pandemic, we're offering
telehealth visits
to meet your individual needs.
COVID-19 Services
COVID-19 Exposure Management Team
If you are experiencing COVID-19 symptoms, contact the Exposure Management Team at (310) 206-6217 or email us before coming into our center.
COVID-19 Testing
The Ashe Center offers PCR and Antibody Testing for COVID-19. Schedule an appointment or request a PCR test through our Patient Portal today.
COVID-19 Vaccine Hub
Instructions and information on what steps to take to schedule your COVID-19 vaccine, as well as frequently asked questions about the COVID-19 vaccine.
COVID-19 Vending Machines
Information on testing via COVID-19 self-test vending machines located conveniently across UCLA campus.
Comprehensive Services
Acupuncture
An ancient form of healing that has been used to manage musculoskeletal pain, stress, migraines, and more. Our licensed practitioners are committed to improving student health.
After Hours Nurse Line
Advice and information from a registered nurse when The Ashe Center is closed or unavailable.
Bruin Health Pharmacy
A full range of prescription medications in addition to over 70 over-the-counter medications available to students and faculty and staff with qualifying insurance plans
Campus Smiles Dental
Comprehensive dentistry on campus. Located conveniently on the 2nd floor of The Ashe Center.
Clinical Coordination
With a referral from an Ashe provider or campus partner, the Clinical Coordinators are available to provide outreach, planning, care coordination, advocacy, and support.
Flu Shots
Free for UCSHIP students, $25 for NonSHIP and BruinCare students
Gynecology Services
Breast and gynecologic exams (Pap smears), birth control advice, pregnancy testing and counseling, screening for STIs, medication abortion, and diagnosis of gynecological disorders.
Health Clearance
For graduate schools, study abroad, employment, or volunteer work
Immunizations
For school, work, volunteer, travel, and more.
Lab Services
A wide variety of laboratory tests, including self-collection options
Lactation Services
Lactation services now available at The Ashe Center.
LiveHealth Online
Online video appointments (telemedicine) with an Anthem network provider when The Ashe Center is closed.
Mental Health
Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) supports your mental health needs as you pursue your academic goals. Their services are designed to foster the development of healthy well-being needs.
Nutrition
Good nutrition positively impacts the way you feel and even helps you excel in everyday activities. Our registered dietitian offers private counseling for your your nutrition and lactation needs.
Physical Therapy
Quality and personalized care for treatment of a variety of orthopedic conditions.
PrEP Clinic
PrEP/ STI Reduction visits with a registered nurse
Primary Care
All students are assigned a Primary Care Provider (PCP) at Ashe who is a physician, nurse practitioner, or physician assistant with training in family practice, pediatrics, or internal medicine.
Radiology
State-of-the-art equipment and quick results for your x-ray needs.
Smoking Cessation
Our registered nurses can help you quit smoking
Specialists
A variety of in-house specialty clinics staffed by physicians from the UCLA Health System. Your Ashe PCP can refer you to one of our specialists for your specific health concerns.
Sports Physicals
All UCLA Club Sport Athletes are required to have a pre-participation exam (PPE) once upon entry to the club sports program.
STI & HIV Testing
The Ashe Center offers testing for sexually transmitted infections (STIs) as part of a primary care visit, or ordered individually through the Patient Portal for self-testing.
Transgender & Nonbinary Care
If you are considering hormone therapy or any other gender affirming care, please schedule an appointment with our designated gender affirming care provider to start the conversation.
Travel Clinic
Advice, immunizations, and prescriptions as needed based on your health status and travel plans.
UCLA Immunization Requirements
All newly-admitted incoming UCLA students must provide documentation of vaccination or immunity to certain infectious diseases.
U See LA Optometry
Comprehensive eye exams, eyeglasses, sunglasses, and contact lenses.
Virtual Nurse Advice
Use the Patient Portal to communicate electronically with an Ashe Center nurse for answers to non-urgent medical questions.
Additional Resources
Diabetes Prevention Program
UCLA DPP provides education, encouragement, and the tools necessary to help individuals reach their health goals.
FITTED Program
FITTED 0.5 targets students that live sedentary lifestyles. It is designed to provide students with a program that can help address health issues and an Ashe PCP can refer students to participate.
Food Security Resources
UCLA Financial Wellness centralizes and advocates for student economic support services on campus, including food security.
LGBTQ+ Health
LGBTQ+ Health Services include PrEP/PEP, STI Testing/ Reduction, Transgender Health Visits, and more.
Outreach
The Ashe Center Outreach team is the student health center’s public face on the UCLA campus.
Ride N Shine Transportation
Ride and Shine is a transportation service provided to Ashe patients who may need assistance traveling to and from The Ashe Center.
Student Health Education
Welcome to Student Health Education & Promotion (SHEP), an office of Student Affairs focused on the health promotion and education of all UCLA students!
Sydney Health Mobile App
What is the Sydney Health App? Sydney Health is an app that allows UC SHIP members and their dependents access to plan ID cards and benefits information from their mobile devices.
Contact Ashe Center
221 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-4073
Fax: (310) 206-8012
Contact
Stay in the know
Facebook @uclastudenthealth
Instagram @uclaashecenter
LinkedIn @ucla-ashe-student-health-center
Sydney Health Mobile App