Student Health Advisory Committee (SHAC) | UCLA Student Health
Skip to Main Content
Search Website
Search
Search Website
Search
Student Health Advisory Committee (SHAC)
About SHAC
The UCLA Student Health Advisory Committee (SHAC) was established on the UCLA campus on November 2, 1972. SHAC was formed in order to provide formal student participation into the administration of UCLA Student Health Services (The Ashe Center).
As the officially recognized UCLA student committee charged with having oversight and input into the provision of health services as well as with fostering the overall health and wellbeing of UCLA students, SHAC has established formal relationships not only with the Ashe Center, but also with other administrative bodies associated with student health and wellness and organizations charged with the oversight of these programs. These programs include, but are not limited to: The Ashe Center, Student Affairs, the University of California Office of the President, Counseling And Psychological Services (CAPS), the Undergraduate Student Association (USAC), and the Graduate Student Association (GSA).Our Charter & Bylaws.
Our Charter
Read the UCLA SHAC Charter
SHAC Priorities
Outreach
SHAC gathers and reviews information about students’ satisfaction with the Ashe Center and about challenges students encounter in obtaining care or using the Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP). To do so, SHAC reviews anonymous feedback from Ashe Center kiosks, speaks with campus groups and representatives, and directly responds to student emails. SHAC also participates in information fairs and works with other student groups such as the Student Health Advocates (SHAs), Student Wellness Commission (SWC), Graduate Student Association (GSA) and Undergraduate Student Association Council (USAC). We also host quarterly outreach and educational events for the entire student body.
Student Insurance Review
SHAC is part of the Executive Oversight Board that reviews the Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP) including pharmacy, medical, behavioral health, dental, and vision coverage. In this role, SHAC makes recommendations about how to balance requests for new benefits and maintain affordable health plan costs for students.
Advising
In addition to conveying concerns and recommendations to UCLA student health administrators, SHAC is briefed on new initiatives and asked for input on potential changes to policies and services.
Get Involved
If you are interested in becoming a SHAC member for the upcoming academic year, please contact your newly elected student government during Spring Quarter for more information. We encourage anyone interested in campus health care to apply. You must be a student in good academic standing, attend meetings regularly, and participate actively. The SHAC appointment is a two-year stipended position with a two-year commitment.
Are you a graduate student?
Visit the
GSA website
for more information, or e-mail the GSA president.
Are you an undergraduate student?
Visit the
USAC website
for more information, or e-mail the USAC​ President.
SHAC Meeting Calendar
Loading events...
SHAC Meeting Minutes
See the latest SHAC meeting minutes by accessing their public Google Drive.
SHAC Meeting Minutes on Google Drive
If you have trouble accessing these meeting minutes, please contact
shac@ashe.ucla.edu
for assistance.
Contact SHAC
NOTICE: In order to protect your PRIVACY, please do NOT include any personal health information in the content of your message. This is NOT an encrypted (i.e. secure) mode of communication and confidentiality cannot be absolutely guaranteed.
If you have any comments about your experience with the student health services at UCLA and for general questions, please send us an email at
shac@ashe.ucla.edu
. For updates and to learn more, please follow us on Instagram.
UCLA SHAC on Instagram
SHAC meetings are open to
all students
, so please contact us by email if you would like to attend our next meeting.
Committee Members
Lauren Heiberg, SHAC Chair
Goal: To increase knowledge about and access to health resources at UCLA for all students through increased outreach and communication.
Jacquelyn Aramkul
Goal: Ensure that students are aware of all the health resources UCLA has and how to take advantage of them.
Katherine Pohl
Goal: To survey the student body regarding medical needs currently not covered by the student insurance policy and to advocate for coverage of those needs.
Becca Nelson
Goal: To advocate for student's needs to provide high quality, affordable and accessible care for students of all backgrounds.
Kaitlyn Haley Hernandez
Goal: To take a cultural approach in advocating for all UCLA students to have access to equitable, high-quality healthcare and are all aware of the mental health resources available on campus.
Natalie Jane Benitez
Goal: To advocate for equitable, accessible, and high quality healthcare for the UCLA student body, especially minoritized students by increasing awareness via innovative programming and partnerships.
Amanda Giuliano
Goal: To increase undergraduate/graduate student involvement in university-wide health initiatives and graduate student awareness of health services available at UCLA.
Daniel Eliahu Mishail
My goals are to represent the needs of the graduate student body in meetings to the Ashe Center and CAPS.
Contact Ashe Center
221 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-4073
Fax: (310) 206-8012
Contact
Stay in the know
Facebook @uclastudenthealth
Instagram @uclaashecenter
LinkedIn @ucla-ashe-student-health-center
Sydney Health Mobile App