Patient Feedback | UCLA Student Health
Skip to Main Content
Search Website
Search
Search Website
Search
Patient Feedback
The Ashe Center wants feedback on your patient experience. Your feedback can be
anonymous
or you can include your personal information on our secure survey site to give us the opportunity to respond to you, personally.
We Value Your Feedback
The Arthur Ashe Student Health & Wellness Center and every member of our team is committed to maintaining the highest standards for patient satisfaction. As such, we encourage all comments and suggestions from patients and their concerned loved ones. You can submit feedback confidentially through our
online survey
or contact our Clinical Coordinator, Kate Mulligan at
kmulligan@ashe.ucla.edu
.
Comments and Suggestions
Tell us about your Patient Care Experience at The Ashe Center
How to Report Sexual Harassment or Misconduct
How to Submit a Discrimination Complaint
Student Health Center
What is CICARE?
Following the lead of our campus partners at
UCLA Health
, The Ashe Center adapted
CICARE
for student health. CICARE is an evidence-based acronym that creates a standard process for interactions with patients, families, and colleagues.
Specifically, with every patient and in every encounter, we commit to:
•
C
onnect with Compassion
by addressing the patients with their chosen name.
•
I
ntroduce yourself with Integrity
by stating your name and role in their visit.
•
C
ommunicate with Teamwork
what you are going to do and how it will impact the patient.
•
A
sk with Discovery
by anticipating patient needs, questions, or concerns.
•
R
espond with Respect
to patient questions or requests with immediacy.
•
E
xit with Excellence
by ensuring all patient needs are met.
Submit Feedback to The Ashe Center
As a UCLA student, you, your parents and your family have the right to inform us when your needs have not been met. If you submit feedback, please know that your care will not be affected in any way. You can choose to submit feedback
anonymously
, but if you include your contact information a member of the Ashe team will contact you within 3 business days to let you know that we have received your feedback and what the next steps are. We make every effort to resolve issues within 30 days, but that may not always be possible.
Contacting UCLA’s Student Health Advisory Committee (SHAC)
UCLA’s
Student Health Advisory Committee (SHAC)
gathers and reviews information about students’ satisfaction with The Ashe Center and about challenges students encounter in obtaining care or using the
Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP)
. Students are encouraged to contact SHAC to provide their feedback on areas of focus for improvements at The Ashe Center. Please be advised: In order to protect your privacy, it is recommended that you do NOT include any personal health information (PHI) in the content of your message when contacting SHAC. To submit feedback using a secure, confidential format, please contact The Ashe Center directly. For periodic updates on SHAC and to learn more about their work,
please visit their Facebook page
throughout the academic year, or attend a quarterly meeting.
Tell us About Shining Stars
“Shining Stars” are The Ashe Center staff members, from doctors and nurses to front-line scheduling staff, who have gone above and beyond to make your visit memorable by providing you with excellent care. Want to nominate a Shining Star in our organization for recognition? You can do so through
our online survey
. Or, alternatively, we also welcome your thoughtful reviews on Yelp or Google.
Contact Ashe Center
221 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-4073
Fax: (310) 206-8012
Contact
Stay in the know
Facebook @uclastudenthealth
Instagram @uclaashecenter
LinkedIn @ucla-ashe-student-health-center
Sydney Health Mobile App