Devotional Spaces of a Global Saint: Shirdi Sai Baba’s Presence as a volume dedicated to the memory of Mary “Polly” Nooter Roberts • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
Devotional Spaces of a Global Saint: Shirdi Sai Baba’s Presence as a volume dedicated to the memory of Mary “Polly” Nooter Roberts
In Fall 2022, Routledge published
Devotional Spaces of a Global Saint: Shirdi Sai Baba’s Presence
as a volume dedicated to the memory of Mary “Polly” Nooter Roberts (d. 2018), Professor of World Arts and Cultures and former Fowler Museum Deputy Director. Twelve worldwide scholars have contributed essays. A chapter entitled “Baba’s Guiding Hand: Artists and Acheiropoiesis” is composed from Polly’s unpublished research with artists in Mauritius, India, and Germany who realize works for those given to Baba as Polly herself increasingly became as she followed her eight-year cancer path. The book is available in hard- and paperback and was edited by Smriti Srinivas (Professor of Anthropology, UC Davis), Neelima Jeychandran (whose WACD PhD was co-chaired by Polly and AL Roberts), and Allen F. Roberts (WACD Distinguished Professor Emeritus).
photo - Polly Roberts and Neelima Jeychandran with the maquette of Shirdi Sai Baba’s
murti
“embodiment” in the Talim Sculpture Studio of Mumbai, December 2009. With permission.
WACD News
Newsletter
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top