The Art & Global Health Center is recruiting students from all UCLA departments to join our team. • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
The Art & Global Health Center is recruiting students from all UCLA departments to join our team.
Academic Credit (2-4 units), Work-Study and Volunteer Positions Available
Wednesdays/Fridays, 10 AM-1 PM
The
Art & Global Health Center
is recruiting students from all UCLA departments to join us as interns and volunteers who will assist with executing our public health intervention known as
AMP!
(Arts-based, Multiple-component, Peer-education).
Primary responsibilities relate to supporting the
UCLA Sex Squad
’s in-person theatrical performances aimed at high school health students on Wednesdays and Fridays, 10 AM-1 PM. High school students will be brought to UCLA to experience our sexual health education variety show and tour the campus.
Interns and volunteers will be essential in bringing high school students to and from the show, as well as ushering from buses and leading special campus tours/scavenger hunts. No prior experience required.
Apply here:
ArtGlobalHealth.org/apply
Questions? Contact Isaiah Baiseri at
ibaiseri@ucla.edu
.
Announcements
Events Calendar
WACD News
Newsletter
Archive
WACD News
Newsletter
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top