WACD Welcomes 2023 UC REGENTS LECTURER: Beatriz Lemos • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
WACD Welcomes 2023 UC REGENTS LECTURER: Beatriz Lemos
Beatriz Lemos is a curator and researcher whose practice focuses on contemporary art in the Global South. They hold a BA in Art History from the State University of Rio de Janeiro and an MA in Social History of Culture, from the Pontifical Catholic University of Rio de Janeiro. Lemos’ work places a particular emphasis on anti-coloniality, gender, and race, questions they have explored through pedagogy, collaboration and curatorial interventions. Lemos is the founder and director of the Lastro - Free Exchanges in Art platform. From counter-hegemonic perspectives, Lastro foments and promotes the articulation and realization of networked and transdisciplinary processes of creation and learning.
Lemos has been curating since 2003 and comprises a vast curriculum of exhibitions, residencies, network management, educational practices, coordination of residency programs, conferences and research processes, as well as organization, cataloging and mediation of collections.
Most recent featured work: Between 2015/2016 they were Visiting Curator at Escola de Artes Visuais (EAV) do Parque Lage in Rio de Janeiro, where they instigated and developed the EAV’s Library|Documentation and Research Center. In 2015, they led the residency program Lastro CentroAmérica, with Brazilian artists and curators, based between Panama, Costa Rica, Guatemala and Mexico. This intensive period resulted in the exhibition ‘Lastro em campo: percursos ancestrais e cotidianos’, at São Paulo’s Sesc Consolação in 2016. Lemos was part of the curatorial commission of the 20th Contemporary Art Festival Sesc Videobrasil (2017) and the Pampulha Grant (2018/2019), and coordinated the artist residency Travessias Ocultas - Lastro Bolívia, which led to an exhibition at São Paulo’s Sesc Bom Retiro in 2016-17. From 2019-21, Lemos was the co-curator of the 3rd edition of Frestas – Trienal de Artes in São Paulo.
Currently they are Chief Curator at The Museum of Modern Art in Rio de Janeiro.
WACD News
Newsletter
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top