WACD Welcomes Dr. Ayasha Guerin • UCLA World Arts and Cultures/Dance
WACD Welcomes Dr. Ayasha Guerin
UCLA Arts welcomes a new faculty member to the UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance: Assistant Professor
Ayasha Guerin
.
Guerin is an interdisciplinary scholar, artist, and curator of photography, video, and performance. They join UCLA Arts from the University of British Columbia (UBC), where they were assistant professor of Black diaspora studies in the Department of English. They were also faculty affiliate of the Centre for European Studies and the Department of Central, Eastern, and Northern European Studies at UBC.
Guerin’s first book project,
Making Zone A, Nature, Race and Resilience on New York’s Most Vulnerable Shores
, studies the colonial foundations of the city’s waterfront development from the 17th-19th century and traces how conquest, slavery, and racial capitalism have physically altered coastal environments and socio-ecological relations. Selections from this book have been published in
Island Studies Journal
, a special issue of
Shima
on coloniality and islands, and is forthcoming as chapters in two books:
Bio/Matter/Techno/Synthetics
(Actar, 2023) and a Routledge anthology on
The Aquapelago and Aquapelagic Thinking
.
Guerin is also engaged in art activism and curatorial research in Berlin. They have published a German language chapter in
Sisters and Souls 2: Inspirationen durch May Ayim
(2021) and their latest article, “Matter and Memory: Black Feminist Performance and Poetics in Berlin” (Meridians), describes their performance and activism as one of the founding members of Black Art Action Berlin. They also serve on the Black Feminist advisory board for Dekoloniale, a public office to “decolonize” Berlin’s memorial spaces and museum collections, and is a member of the Berlin-based curatorial research collective Curating through Conflict with Care.
In January, 2023, Guerin founded the
Liberated Planet Studio
, for artists and activists interested in ecological and movement research at the intersections of social and environmental justice.
Guerin holds a Ph.D. in American Studies from New York University and a B.A. from the University of Pennsylvania.
WACD News
Newsletter
UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance
120 Westwood Plaza
Box 951608, 150 Kaufman Hall
Los Angeles
,
California
90095-1608
Telephone:
+1 (310) 825-3951
Email:
wacinfo@arts.ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Twitter
Vimeo
The Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance is a part of the
School of the Arts and Architecture
at the
University of California, Los Angeles
.
The UCLA Department of World Arts and Cultures/Dance acknowledges the Gabrielino/Tongva peoples as the traditional land caretakers of
Tovaangar
(Los Angeles basin, So. Channel Islands) and is grateful to have the opportunity to work for the
taraaxatom
(indigenous peoples) in this place. As a land grant institution, we pay our respects to
Honuukvetam
(Ancestors),
'Ahiihirom
(Elders), and
'eyoohiinkem
(our relatives/relations) past, present and emerging.
Made with
Kirby
.
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
.
Back to top