Uri McMillan receives Warhol Foundation grant for book on influential 1970s artists - Humanities Division - UCLA
Skip to main content
Home
»
News
»
Uri McMillan receives Warhol Foundation grant for book on influential 1970s artists
Uri McMillan receives Warhol Foundation grant for book on influential 1970s artists
Published:
February 8, 2024
Uri McMillan (Photo: Tony Rinaldo)
Sean Brenner | February 8, 2024
Uri McMillan,
a UCLA professor of English and African American studies, has received a $50,000 grant from the Andy Warhol Foundation to support work on his forthcoming book.
“The Seventies in Color” will focus on three trendsetting New York City artists of the 1970s — fashion designer Stephen Burrows, musician-actor-model Grace Jones and fashion illustrator Antonio Lopez — to demonstrate the influence of Black and Brown creative labor across multiple fields.
McMillan said the book will advance an alternative view of the culture-defining New York arts scene of that era.
“The standard narrative around New York in the 1970s is that cheap rents encouraged artists to move in and create amidst widespread crime and social unrest,” he said. “However, the stubborn focus on figures like Andy Warhol and Halston, and places like Studio 54, has occluded attention to artists of color who are treated as ancillary figures when they were making impactful contributions to commercial and creative industries, mainly through the apparatus of style.”
McMillan began working on the project during the summer of 2020, just months into the COVID-19 outbreak. “Ironically,” he said, “the isolation forced by the pandemic facilitated thinking about the theme of ‘working together’ that stretches across the book.”
“The Seventies in Color” is scheduled to be published by Duke University Press in late 2025.
McMillan is currently teaching two graduate-level classes: an English course on interdisciplinary American studies and a gender studies course on queer and feminist theory.
The Warhol Foundation’s Arts Writers Grants promote critical writing about the visual arts; awards support books, articles and short-form writing. McMillan was one of 27 writers to be honored in the 2023 award cycle.
He is UCLA’s second honoree in as many years: Gender studies professor
Joshua Javier Guzmán,
chair of UCLA’s LGBTQ Studies program,
received a grant in the 2022 cycle.
Recent News
On the ‘Afterlife of Photography’: Q&A with art historian George Baker
Department of Spanish and Portuguese scholars collaborate on project to translate neuroscience research
Uri McMillan receives Warhol Foundation grant for book on influential 1970s artists
View All
News
Sign up for our Newsletter
For an easy way to keep up to date with it all, sign up below to receive a weekly digest in your inbox of all upcoming Humanities events.
Email
*
Search
UCLA Humanities Division  is part of the
Humanities Division
within
UCLA College
.
2300 Murphy Hall
|
Los Angeles, CA
90095
University of California © 2024 UC Regents
MENU
Home
Dean’s Office
About Us
Dean’s Office Staff
Dean’s Discretionary Fund
Division of Humanities Communication Request
EPIC
Academics
Departments & Programs
Research Centers
Languages
Holistic Graduate Admissions
Partnerships
Events
Commencement
Editor in Residence
Humanities Dialogues
Humanities Undergraduate Career Panel Series
Possible Worlds
World Languages Day
News
Diversity
Forum on Diversity, Race, & Immigration
Diversity Courses
Campus Resources
Students
Graduate
Undergraduate
Divisional Fellowships
Giving
Dean’s Circle
UCLA Division of Humanities Dean’s Advisory Board