Apply | UCLA Undergraduate Admission
Skip to navigation
Skip to main content
Skip to footer
Undergraduate Admission
Search
Search
Apply
Ready to Apply? Here’s How.
Discover all the information you need below to get your UCLA application going. Learn more about the qualities and characteristics we’re looking for in our review process. Also, find out about important deadlines you won’t want to miss.
Freshmen
You’ll be graduating from high school or you’ve already graduated but have yet to enroll in any college or university.
Transfers
You graduated from high school and have completed some college-level coursework beyond the summer following graduation.
International
You’re in your final year of secondary school or you’ve already completed it but are not currently enrolled in any college or university. Your secondary credential will qualify/qualifies you to enter a university in your home country.
Application
The University of California (UC) application opens
August 1
and the period of time to submit an application for admission is
October 1–November 30
.
Explore the UC Application
Important Dates
August 1
UC application opens
October 1
UC starts accepting applications
November 30
Last day to file UC applications
Late March
Decisions for most freshman applicants released
Late April
Decisions for most transfer applicants released
What We Look For
We value applicants who challenge themselves with a rigorous curriculum in high school or secondary school and whose personal stories, rich experiences and leadership skills enhance their perspective and potential contributions to our campus community.
Learn about our freshman criteria
Learn about transfer criteria
Student Profiles
When reviewing applications, we consider a wide variety of factors. See how the primary academic factors, which are more easily quantifiable, help shape the profile of our students.
See the freshman student profile
See the transfer student profile
Personal Insight Questions
The personal insight questions are a key part of your UC application. They give us insight about you in your own words as we review applications. Watch this video for helpful tips on what the questions are about and how to approach answering them.
Learn about the questions
Additional Information
First-Generation Students
Veterans
Students With Disabilities
Undocumented Students
Returning Students
Transferring Credits
Reporting Changes to Applications
Learn more about UCLA
Hear more about events in your area, application deadlines and more.
Request Information
1147 Murphy Hall, Box 951436
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1436
Icon/Social/facebook-white
Icon/Social/twitter-white
Icon/Social/instagram-white
©2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use