High Fidelity Simulators | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
High Fidelity Simulators
Realistic computerized human patient simulators for advanced scenario-based medical training.
High Fidelity Simulator: A term often used to refer to the broad range of full-body manikins that have the ability to mimic, at a very high level, human body functions.
www.ssih.org. Healthcare Simulation Dictionary Second Edition, 2020
High Fidelity Simulator Overview
High fidelity mannequin simulators (or "manikins") are a cutting-edge approach to medical education, designed to replicate human physiology and respond dynamically to medical interventions, providing a tactile hands-on learning experience. High fidelity simulation offers a level of realism and complexity that closely mirrors clinical practice, enabling learners to develop advanced clinical skills and competencies.
These state-of-the-art simulators are essential to many courses taught at the UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine and UCLA Health, including in-situ training taking place in Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center.
Requesting a High Fidelity Simulator
High fidelity simulators reside exclusively in the Sim Center and require a Simulation Operations Specialist to operate and maintain. They may not be requested as equipment rentals. Educators interested in requesting high fidelity simulators for simulation training must submit a Course Request via the
Sim Request Portal
.
High fidelity simulators must be requested at least four weeks in advance of your planned course, and are subject to the availability of our Simulation Operation Specialists, who must be present on-site during the session to operate the simulator. Please check our
Calendar
for staff and space availability on your chosen session date.
Please review the following PDF to ensure you have all the information you need to complete the request form:
UCLA Sim Center Session Request Form Guide
(64.88 KB)
Submit Request to Schedule a High Fidelity Simulation
Sim Request Portal
Log in with your Mednet account using multi-factor authentication. For those outside the UCLA system, sign up for an account using the "Sign Up" link in the Request Portal.
Once logged in, select "
New Course Request
" at the top of the page and fill out the form with the details of your requested course.
We recommend using Chrome web browser to access the request form, as other web browsers such as Safari, Firefox and Edge may give error messages.
Our high fidelity simulators include:
Adult models (
SimMan 3G Plus
,
SimMan 3G
)
Birthing model (
Victoria
)
Pediatric models (
5 Year Old Hal
)
Infant models (
Premature Anne
,
SimBaby
,
Premie Hal
,
SuperTory
)
Full Sim Equipment List
UCLA Simulation Center Equipment List
(Mednet login required)
For groups outside of the UCLA Health system, please
Contact Us
for the full equipment list.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login