Low Fidelity Simulators | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Low Fidelity Simulators
Low fidelity simulators used for scenario-based and procedural skills training.
Low Fidelity: Not needing to be controlled or programmed externally for the learner to participate.
www.ssih.org. Healthcare Simulation Dictionary Second Edition, 2020
Low Fidelity Simulator Overview
Low fidelity simulators can be considered a half-step between a full-body manakin simulator and a task trainer. They serve as cost-effective and easily accessible tools for learners to practice fundamental medical skills. These simulators are particularly useful for introductory training, allowing students to familiarize themselves with procedures, equipment, and basic techniques before moving on to more complex simulations.
Requesting a Low Fidelity Simulator
Low fidelity simulators are available to use at our facility during on-site simulation courses and procedural skills training. They can also be rented out by members of UCLA Health, UCLA DGSOM, or affiliated groups, pending approval by our staff. An Equipment Request form must be submitted for all equipment rentals.
Educators interested in reserving our low fidelity simulators may visit the
Sim Request Portal
and fill out the form with the necessary information about your planned session and the requested simulators.
Low fidelity simulators should be requested with as much notice as possible (at least 5 business days notice preferred) to ensure the availability of the equipment. Please allow us up to 5 business days to review and respond. We cannot guarantee that same day or short notice requests will be accommodated.
Submit Request for Low Fidelity Simulator
Sim Request Portal
Log in with your Mednet account using multi-factor authentication. For those outside the UCLA system, sign up for an account using the "Sign Up" link in the Request Portal.
Once logged in, select either "
New Course Request
" or "
New Equipment Request
" and fill out the form with the required details.
We recommend using Chrome web browser to access the request form, as other web browsers such as Safari, Firefox and Edge may give error messages.
Our low fidelity simulators include:
CPR Manikins (
Resusci Anne
,
Little Family
)
Cardiopulmonary Patient Simulators (
Harvey
)
Wearable Birthing Simulators (
MamaNatalie
,
PartoPants
)
Full Sim Equipment List
UCLA Simulation Center Equipment List
(Mednet login required)
For groups outside of the UCLA Health system, please
Contact Us
for the full equipment list.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login