Procedural Task Trainers | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Task Trainers
Anatomically correct models and tools designed to simulate specific procedural medical tasks.
Task Trainer: A model that represents a part or region of the human body such as an arm, or an abdomen. Such devices may use mechanical or electronic interfaces to teach and give feedback on manual skills such as IV insertion, ultrasound scanning, suturing, etc.
www.ssih.org. Healthcare Simulation Dictionary Second Edition, 2020
Task Trainer Overview
The UCLA Simulation Center owns numerous task trainers used for teaching a wide variety of clinical disciplines. Generally used to support procedural skills training, they can also be used in conjunction with other learning technologies to create simulations of integrated clinical situations.
Requesting a Task Trainer
Task trainers are available to use at our facility during on-site simulation sessions and procedural skills training. They can also be rented out by members of UCLA Health, DGSOM, or affiliated groups, pending approval by our staff. An Equipment Request must be submitted for rentals.
Educators interested in reserving our task trainers may visit the
Sim Request Portal
and fill out the form with the necessary information about your planned session and the requested trainers.
Task trainers should be requested with as much notice as possible (at least 5 business days notice preferred) to ensure the availability of the equipment. Please allow us up to 5 business days to review and respond. We cannot guarantee that same day or short notice requests will be accommodated.
Submit Request for Task Trainer Equipment
Sim Request Portal
Log in with your Mednet account using multi-factor authentication. For those outside the UCLA system, sign up for an account using the "Sign Up" link in the Request Portal.
Once logged in, select either "
New Course Request
" or "
New Equipment Request
" and fill out the form with the required details.
We recommend using Chrome web browser to access the request form, as other web browsers such as Safari, Firefox and Edge may give error messages.
Our task trainers include:
Airway trainers (adult, pediatric, and neonatal models)
IV arm trainers (adult and pediatric models)
Lumbar puncture trainers (adult, pediatric, and neonatal models)
Pelvic trainers (pelvic exam, catheterization, transvaginal ultrasound, male and female models)
Defibrillator trainers (AED trainers, defibrillator pad trainers)
Intubation trainers (adult, pediatric, and neonatal models)
CVC trainers (adult and pediatric models)
Breast exam trainers (wearable and individual breast models)
Full Sim Equipment List
UCLA Simulation Center Equipment List
(Mednet login required)
For groups outside of the UCLA Health system, please
Contact Us
for the full equipment list.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login