Virtual Simulators | Simulation Center
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Virtual Simulators
Immersive virtual reality and screen-based medical simulators.
Virtual Reality Simulation: Simulations that use a variety of immersive, highly visual, 3D characteristics to replicate real-life situations and/or healthcare procedures... distinguished from computer-based simulation in that it generally incorporates physical or other interfaces such as a computer keyboard, a mouse, speech and voice recognition, motion sensors, or haptic devices.
www.ssih.org. Healthcare Simulation Dictionary Second Edition, 2020
Virtual Simulator Overview
Virtual simulators are hardware and software tools that recreate a variety of clinical experiences for the training of soft and hard skills in an immersive digital learning environment. These simulators represent the cutting edge of healthcare simulation training, leveraging the latest advances in game technology and digital art to create more immersive and detailed medical training scenarios. The term "virtual simulator" includes both screen-based applications and headset-based virtual reality (VR) applications.
Requesting Virtual Simulators
The use of virtual simulators is restricted to members of UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine, UCLA Health, and affiliated institutions. Most reside exclusively within the Simulation Center due to fragile parts. We allow limited rentals of our virtual simulators for approved courses, events, or research.
Educators or learners interested in reserving our virtual simulators may visit the
Sim Request Portal
and fill out the form with the necessary information about your planned session and the requested hardware and software.
Virtual simulators should be requested with as much notice as possible (at least 5 business days notice preferred) to ensure the availability of the equipment. Please allow us up to 5 business days to review and respond. We cannot guarantee that same day or short notice requests will be accommodated.
Submit a Request for Virtual Simulation
Sim Request Portal
Log in with your Mednet account using multi-factor authentication. For those outside the UCLA system, sign up for an account using the "Sign Up" link in the Request Portal.
Once logged in, select either "
New Course Request
" or "
New Equipment Request
" and fill out the form with the required details.
We recommend using Chrome web browser to access the request form, as other web browsers such as Safari, Firefox and Edge may give error messages.
Our virtual simulator hardware and software includes:
Virtual screen-based ultrasound simulators (
BodyWorks Eve
,
HeartWorks
,
ScanTrainer
)
Virtual reality headsets (
Meta Quest 2 VR headsets
)
SimX
(VR medical simulation software)
Oxford Medical Simulations
(screen-based/VR medical simulation software)
Hyperskill
(screen-based/VR medical simulation software and authoring tool)
Full Sim Equipment List
UCLA Simulation Center Equipment List
(Mednet login required)
For groups outside of the UCLA Health system, please
Contact Us
for the full equipment list.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Westwood Plaza
Suite 1106
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Telephone:
(310) 267-2114
Simulation Courses
Medical Students
Residents
Nursing Students
Clinical Nurses
Continuing Professional Development
Training Resources
Standardized Patients
High Fidelity Simulators
Low Fidelity Simulators
Task Trainers
Virtual Simulators
Clinical Equipment
Connect
Contact Us
Sim Requests
Tour Requests
Directions & Parking
Rosenfeld Hall Map
Sim Center Annex Map
Calendar
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login