Learn More About Los Angeles’ Top-Ranked University | UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
About
The Public’s University
As a public research university, our mission is the creation, dissemination, preservation and application of knowledge for the betterment of our global society. UCLA combines the close-knit learning environment of a spirited public school with the endless opportunities of a world-class city.  Located in beautiful Westwood, minutes from Hollywood and the downtown city center of Los Angeles, the university offers everything you need to reach your full potential.
Awards and Honors
A history of world changers. And we’re just getting started.
With 16 Nobel Laureates, 15 MacArthur Fellows, 120 NCAA championships and more Olympic medals than most nations, UCLA has become a household name synonymous with academic and athletic excellence. Because of this storied history it’s easy to imagine that we’ve been around forever, when in fact, UCLA turned a youthful 100 in 2019. In other words, we’re just getting started.
See Awards and Honors
No other higher-education institution has achieved, innovated or impacted the world more in its first 100 years. As a world-class institution, UCLA has played a role in shaping the present world in every way.”
Community Engagement and Impact
Los Angeles. A home for helpful visionaries.
The global city of Los Angeles is a dynamic environment for building and testing dreams. People come here because they want to make the world a better place and they find support in our mission, values and community. Their passion becomes a public service to the city, state and the world.
Local Impact
Global Engagement
Frequently Requested
UCLA Athletics
UCLA Athletics Hall of Fame
Undergraduate Admission
Graduate Admission
Financial Aid
Housing Services
Dining Services
UCLA Transportation
UCLA Events Office
UCLA Central Ticket Office
Campus Human Resources
News Media Contacts at UCLA
Programs and Majors
UCLA Alumni Association
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept