Academics |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Academics
What course will your future take?
UCLA is a world-class research university nestled into a training ground for your talents: the global city of Los Angeles. Here, your effort will amount to more than just a fulfilling career, because everything we do,
				we do to better the community. Whether you want to change a life, a generation or the whole world, it all starts with the courses you take at UCLA.
Choose Your Life’s Adventure
Over 125 majors are just the beginning
It’s not just the quantity and quality of programs that make a UCLA education stand apart; It’s how they all come together to help you discover your future. Here, you will be encouraged to explore outside of the
				typical educational track, guided by faculty and in partnership with students who share your dreams.
Explore Programs & Majors
The University for the Future
A catalyst for positive change and remarkable firsts
In just over a century, UCLA has become one of the leading research universities in the world. We take pride in our history of Nobel Laureates, MacArthur Fellows, National Medal of Science winners and a Fields Medal recipient, but what matters most is how you use this stage to create a
				better future. Whether you’re enrolling as an undergraduate or graduate student, a culture of progressive, people-first problem solvers awaits.
Undergraduate Education
Graduate Education
Welcome to L.A.
It’s no wonder that people from all over the world move to Los Angeles and never leave. Our thriving, global city offers an abundance of industry and culture to explore. UCLA will become your gateway through
				internships, research, fellowships, jobs and more. Find a new scene or one that feels like home and explore different cultures while creating a professional niche and networking for your career.
Collaboration Is Our Game
Catch bits of conversations on campus and you will hear the sounds of interdisciplinary collaboration, but no two instances will feel the same. Because when you witness curious students and award-winning faculty blurring
				the lines between art, science, business, law, math and more, you witness pure creation with a purpose.
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept