Admission |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
ADMISSION
Dare to Dream Bigger
Academy Award-winning directors and Nobel Laureates. Olympic medalists and acclaimed activists. Renowned doctors, scientists, researchers and politicians. Bruins don’t just get a degree — they change the world.
Undergraduate Admission
Graduate & Professional Schools Admission
A Diverse Family of Doers
The No. 1 public university in the country is determined to do more for the world by welcoming applicants from all backgrounds.
As the highest-ranked public university in the nation, UCLA is a sought-after destination for students from all walks of life who are eager to be part of an academic culture that values public service. Join a diverse family of students and faculty who want to make an impact with their life’s work.
First-year freshmen and transfer students, our world-class faculty and challenging curriculum will inspire you to think in new, unexpected ways as you shape the life you want to lead.
Graduate students, you’ll collaborate with faculty who are among the world's top researchers and scholars, all while developing lifelong relationships and advancing your career.
We guarantee that all Bruins will be given the opportunity to discover their dream career while building lasting relationships and making connections they'll cherish for a lifetime.
Study online, on campus or part-time to fit your schedule. Whatever path you choose, UCLA will help you discover your strengths, pursue your passions and bring your dreams to life.
Join our campus. See what’s Bruin!
Rankings
#1
Public University
U.S. News & World Report (2022)
#20
National University
U.S. News & World Report (2022)
#14
Global University
U.S. News & World Report (2022)
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept