Exploring Campus Life at UCLA |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Campus Life
Welcome to the Neighborhood
Plan a visit to see why Bruins old and new say attending UCLA is a life-changing experience. As a UCLA student, you are part of a community built around breathtaking scenery, convenient housing, renowned dining, state-of-the-art resources, diverse social life and more. It’s all on campus waiting to be explored.
Campus Environment
Designed as a “
college in a garden
,” the 419-acre Westwood campus sprawls across the Santa Monica Mountain foothills and south into the Los Angeles basin. You might wonder if every building, bench and path has a story to tell. Chances are, they do.
Stand where MLK Jr. gave his “Segregation Must Die” speech at the base of Janss Steps. Marvel at the red brick Romanesque Revival architecture of Powell Library, where Bradbury wrote Fahrenheit 451. Stroll past 16 different recreation centers, the playgrounds for Olympic medalists and mere mortals alike. And don’t forget to stop for a selfie at the birthplace of the Internet.
Frequently rated one of the most beautiful college campuses in America.
Housing and Dining
It’s no wonder that more than 98 percent of first-year undergrads choose to live in the residence halls — life on
the Hill
means you’re a short walk from classes and everything else that campus has to offer. From the more than 5,000 annual events and relaxing sunset vistas to cutting-edge study spaces and palm tree studded terraces, it won’t take you long to find your own happy place.
When it’s time to eat, you have options. Taste, quality, healthy choices, sustainability, dietary restrictions and considerations all top the list, making this food scene the
nation’s best
. Look no further than this list to
find your next meal
.
Housing
Dining
Clubs, Organizations and Recreation
Because students come from all over the globe and all walks of life, you’re bound to make new friends, find inspiration and maybe even change the world.
What will you do together? With more than 1,000 clubs and student organizations, this campus has
a history of building community
.  Following are just a few of the many areas our students enjoy exploring:
Sports and Recreation
Culture and Identity
Business and Entrepreneurship
The Arts
Student Government
Volunteering
Clubs, Organizations and Recreation
Student Health
Your health and happiness are essential to the successful attainment of your educational goals. In support of your growth, the Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center (The Ashe Center) provides high-quality health and wellness services, rendered with kindness by dedicated professionals.
Primary Care
Women’s Health
Immunizations
Travel Medicine
Physical Therapy
Specialty Clinics
Radiology and Laboratory
Acupuncture
Accessibility is key. Students can schedule appointments online and share secure messages with primary care providers. And there are other resources, too, like a 24/7 nurse line and safety escorts from dusk until 1 a.m.
The Ashe Center
Students with Dependent Children Program
The Students with Dependent Children (SwD) Program within the Bruin Resource Center offers support to UCLA undergraduate, graduate, and professional students who have taken on the role of parent, guardian, or caregiver and have continued their academic careers. Through partnerships with parenting student organizations at UCLA, the SwD Program can direct students with dependents to organizations and resources that would support scholars and their families throughout their educational journey.
Visit the Students with Dependents Program
Career Center
Immerse yourself in the pulse of Bruin life with a job on campus. Or set your sights on the Los Angeles job market and beyond with a competitive career plan. You can do either, or both, while exploring a cache of guidance and opportunity from the Career Center.
Career Center
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept