Current Job & Career Openings and Opportunities |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Careers
Why UCLA?
Limitless Opportunities
UCLA is one of the five biggest employers in Los Angeles. Out of 42,000 full- and part-time jobs here, you will find a place for your talent to flourish. You’ll have the flexibility to switch roles, departments or even take on new challenges at other campuses within the UC system.
Work With a Purpose
Don’t come to UCLA for a job. Come to build a career and join a family that is working together to propel the nation’s No. 1 public university into its second century.
Our Values
We commit ourselves to upholding the highest ethical standards. Respect, accountability, integrity, service and excellence make up our
True Bruin Values
.
Diversity
We welcome people of all backgrounds to join our community and contribute in a discrimination- and harassment-free workplace. Whether you’re just starting your career or looking to shift gears later on in your professional journey, you are encouraged to join us.
We Invest in You
We invite UCLA employees to take advantage of the wide array of development programs on offer. Build your skills — from workshops and career programs to management development and online training. Continue learning on campus or at
UCLA Extension
at reduced-fee rates.
Balance
UCLA dedicates a number of services and resources to helping you maintain a healthy
work-life balance
.
Our Home
Come to work on a beautiful campus in Westwood, one of the most pleasant neighborhoods in Los Angeles, a mere five miles from the Pacific Ocean. Great public and campus transportation systems serve the needs of our workforce. Enjoy the restaurants, shops and theaters that make up Westwood Village and the surrounding area.
Campus Job Openings
Health System Job Openings
Academic Positions
Working at UCLA: Purpose, Possibilities, Perks
Benefits
As an employer, UCLA offers an incredible benefits package: comprehensive medical coverage, generous retirement options, paid holidays and vacation, and other programs that promote both your professional growth and personal well-being.
Enroll in one of our medical plans. You’ll get coverage for medical care and prescriptions. Preventive care is 100 percent covered in-network.
Dental and vision coverage and life insurance are all part of the standard benefits package.
Child care resources
and the local school
TIE-INS program
support UCLA employees with families.
UCLA is expanding its existing lactation rooms to provide
nursing mothers
the resources they need.
UCLA Recreation offers the
FITWELL Program
, which includes free classes, to promote healthy lifestyles for faculty and staff. You can access 16 fitness centers and recreational facilities.
Explore Employee Benefits
Related
Campus Human Resources
UCLA Health Human Resources
UCNet
Training & Development
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept