Site Information About Publications & Policy |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Site Information
Sites within the domain ucla.edu are owned by The Regents of the University of California and operated by UCLA. The UCLA web space contains official pages in support of the core mission of the University and related administrative business. It also contains web pages generated by groups or individuals whose expressed views do not necessarily represent the views of UCLA or The Regents.
The University does not actively monitor or control web content. However, when the University receives a notification of an alleged violation of law or policy, we investigate and address violations accordingly. Contact:
abuse@ucla.edu
The UCLA home page or gateway site, ucla.edu, is managed by UCLA Communications & Public Outreach.
UCLA Name and Trademark
UCLA
®
, UCLA Bruins
®
, University of California Los Angeles
®
and all related trademarks are the property of The Regents of the University of California. UCLA names and trademarks may not be used by third parties without specific written permission as outlined in
UCLA Policy 110
.
Other trademarks, service marks and trade names used in the ucla.edu web space are the property of their respective owners.
Endorsements
Links from a website located on a UCLA server to any non-university site do not imply University endorsement of the site’s products or services. References to non-UCLA products, services or organizations do not imply University endorsement of such products, services or organizations.
Image Credits
Photographs include multiple images © 2012 Kyle Alexander, licensed to UCLA; © 2013 Coral Von Zumwalt, licensed to UCLA; and © 2010–2015 Elena Zhukova for the University of California Office of the President. Please do not re-publish photos without verifying ownership or license terms. No third-party use.
Site History
The first UCLA homepage in September 1993 was a simple welcome. In May 1995 came the full-featured “InfoUCLA.” In February 1997, “Planet UCLA” was launched, ornamented with a spinning globe. The “Great Futures” design was adopted in June 2000. The “Here. Now. UCLA” design was launched in late October 2004 and updated in November 2008. It was followed by the “Molecule” design in 2012. The current design was launched in 2021.
Digital Millennium Copyright Act at UCLA
UCLA complies with the provisions of the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA). If you have a concern regarding the use of copyrighted material on any site on the ucla.edu network, please contact the agent designated to respond to reports alleging copyright infringement.
Designated Agent
The designated agent for the UCLA campus to receive notification of claimed infringement under Title II of the DMCA is:
David Shaw
Chief Information Security Officer (CISO)
Information Technology Services
email:
ucladmca@ucla.edu
Telephone: 310-206-6046
Fax: 310-825-9513
UCLA Information Technology Services
BOX 951434
3327 Murphy Hall
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1434
Claims
The DMCA specifies that all infringement claims must be in writing (either electronic mail or paper letter) and must include the following:
A physical or electronic signature of the copyright holder or a person authorized to act on his or her behalf;
A description of the copyrighted work claimed to have been infringed, or, if multiple copyrighted works at a single online site are covered by a single notification, a representative list of such works at that site;
A description of the material that is claimed to be infringing or to be the subject of infringing activity, and information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to locate the material;
Information reasonably sufficient to permit the service provider to contact you, such as an address, telephone number and, if available, an electronic mail address;
A statement that you have a good faith belief that use of the material in the manner complained of is not authorized by the copyright owner, its agent or the law; and
A statement that the information in the notification is accurate and, under penalty of perjury, that you are authorized to act on behalf of the owner of an exclusive right that is allegedly infringed.
HEOA Compliance
Information about UCLA’s compliance with the P2P provisions of the Higher Education Opportunities Act of 2008 can be found at
www.it.ucla.edu/p2p
.
Resources
UCLA Policy 464: Online Copyright Infringement Liability Limitation (PDF document)
UC Commitment to Copyright Law
Digital Millennium Copyright Act Summary from the US Copyright Office
Digital Millennium Copyright Act (PDF document)
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept