Companies | NSF I-CORPS
Select Page
Search for:
X
Companies
Below is a list of some ITA-Supported Companies and Projects:
BruinPatch Inc. has developed a solution capable of extending the lifetime of a pothole repair by more than tenfold or reaching the same remaining service life of the original pavement. This solution was developed through a program sponsored by the National Institute of Standards and Technology (NIST).
Cytovale is a cancer diagnostic instrument that uses a patented approach to measure the amount of cell deformation on thousands of cells in a matter of minutes. Cell deformation has been correlated to the presence of cancer (as it weakens the cellular membrane structure). This allows for high sensitivity than typical methods.
Heirlogix provides Energy-Efficient Hierarchical FPGA and Programming Tools. By developing a revolutionary new interconnect architecture, Hierlogix can provide hardware and software tools that are capable of greatly reducing FPGA power and size requirements, while producing higher speeds and performance.
Inston’s MeRAM is a unique electric-field-controlled magnetic memory technology, which offers the most comprehensive solution to these novel demands. This results from the fact that MeRAM offers three critical advantages over competing (existing or emerging) technologies: (i) 100x lower power consumption, (ii) 10x better density, and (iii) scalability to below 10nm.
Neural Analytics offers a non-invasive solution for measuring intracranial pressure (ICP), a critical physiologic parameter that currently requires a neurosurgeon to drill a hole into the patient’s skull. Our device, RapidICP, has a patented method to noninvasively measure ICP using a portable, inexpensive ultrasound device that can be used by a trained technician.
Polyradiant Corp is developing transparent composite electrode technologies for the flat panel display and thin film electronic industries. Polyradiant’s approach uses conductive nanowires and polymers to form composite membranes with a conductive percolation network in the surface. Polyradiant’s transparent composite electrodes can be tailored with a wide range of mechanical properties, from being rigidly flexible, to highly flexible and stretchable (like a rubber sheet).
SELFA (Semiconductor Electronic Label-Free Assay) is a novel UCLA semiconductor nano-tech/bioengineering platform developed over the past four years and designed to bring laboratory quality In Vitro Diagnostics (IVD) to POC. With a drop of blood as input to the SELFA device, the medical practitioner will be provided with precise, accurate, and high sensitivity results up to 1,000X superior to state of the art laboratory-based immunoassay (e.g. ELISA) in a fraction of the time from sample to results (“vein to brain”), with minimal personnel training required, and thus with potential for significant cost reduction.
SmartestK12 transforms all assignments, assessments or classroom interactions into rich student data, allowing teachers, parents and school administrators to track each child’s learning in real-time and take actions to ensure academic growth. SmartestK12 uses technology to provide insight into the comprehension level of each student. We make it easy for a teacher to know how much each student grows each day; to diagnose each student and then prescribe the right learning resource.
VuPad is a mobile augmented reality (MAR) app that enables users to preview name brand furniture scaled-to-size in their own space from the comforts of their home. Using the camera in a tablet, the VuPad app dynamically places high-quality 3-D furniture models in the viewing panel so that users can rotate and arrange furniture the way they like in a specific room.
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA