Leadership and Team | NSF I-CORPS
Select Page
Search for:
X
I-Corps Team
Roger Wakimoto
PI of UCLA I-CORPS
Vice Chancellor Wakimoto received his B.S. with honors and great distinction in meteorology from San Jose State University and his Ph.D. in geophysical sciences from the University of Chicago. He has previously held a professorship at both UCLA and the University of Colorado at Boulder. He has received many honors, including a scientific and technical achievement award from the Environmental Protection Agency for observations of air pollution as well as the Clarence Leroy Meisinger Award from the American Meteorological Society for his contributions to understanding of mesoscale phenomena.  He became the UCLA Vice Chancellor for Research on July 1, 2017.
Greg Carman
Faculty Lead
Professor Carman, UCLA faculty since 1991, holds the Ben Rich Lockheed Martin Chair. His impactful career includes chairing ASME’s Adaptive Structures and Material Systems (2000-2002) and editing prestigious journals. Recognized with the Northrop Grumman Young Faculty Award (1995), ASME Fellowship (2003), and the ASME Adaptive Structures and Material Systems Prize (2004). Honored by SPIE in 2015 and Distinguished Lecturer for IEEE Magnetic Society in 2016. He currently holds directorship roles for both the Institute for Commercialization and Industry Collaboration and the Center for Advanced Surgical & Interventional Technology (CASIT).
Azar Nazeri
Senior Technology Strategist
Azar Nazeri is manages the National Science Foundation Innovation Corps (NSF I-Corps™) program at UCLA. Dr. Nazeri has over fifteen years of experience as a research scientist at the Naval Research Laboratory (NRL) and as a Program Manager at the Office of Naval Research (ONR), where she oversaw vital Naval technology developments and materials research programs. Dr. Nazeri received her Ph.D. in Materials Science and Engineering from UCLA in 1989.
Meliha Bulu-Taciroglu
Lead Instructor
Meliha Bulu-Taciroglu has been teaching for the Technology Management Technical Breadth Program at UCLA’s Henry Samueli School of Engineering since 2011. She also continuously collaborates with active entrepreneurs, corporations, and non-profit organizations. She holds a B.S. from the Middle East Technical University in Economics, a M.A. from Boston College in Economics, and a M.S. in Mathematics and Ph.D. (ABD) in Economics from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign.
Sarah Barton
Consultant
Sarah Barton is an accomplished Entrepreneurial Product Leader in CPG with a proven track record in overseeing product launches, forging key business relationships, and driving growth through multi-channel marketing initiatives. Sarah’s entrepreneurial journey is complemented by her extensive experience as a commercial Casting Producer for multiple Clio and Cannes Lion award-winning content. Sarah holds an M.B.A. from UCLA Anderson, specializing in Entertainment Management. She received her B.A. in Political Economy from UC Berkeley. Sarah is a recent addition to the I-Corps team.
Scaffer Grimm
Engineering School Industry Relations Director
Schaffer Grimm, ICIC Director of Industry Relations, leads collaboration between industry and academia. Formerly with the ITA, he co-founded Craytex LLC, specializing in carbon nanotube composites. His role at Northrop Grumman involved managing operations for the Microelectronics Products and Services organization. With an MBA and MS in Electrical Engineering, Grimm’s multidimensional expertise contributes significantly to the I-Corp program.
Tsai-Tsai O-Lee
Administrative Director, Institute for Commercialization and Industry Collaboration
Tsai-Tsai O-Lee, a seasoned UCLA professional with 23+ years of experience, excels in organizational leadership, budgeting, and grant management. As Administrative Director for TANMS Engineering Research Center, she oversees multimillion-dollar funding and operations. Formerly a Management Services Officer, she managed a statewide education program with over 19 regional sites across California A UCLA alum with a B.S. in General Biology, Ms. O-Lee is highly regarded for her professionalism and institutional knowledge.
Tina Ma
Student Intern
Tina Ma is a junior at UCLA studying Mathematics of Computation. She is interested in web and software development and would like to pursue software engineering in finance as a career.
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA