Academic Programs | UCLA School of Nursing
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
Alumni
Students
Academic Programs
Alert
APRN Admission Deadline Extended to March 1, 2024
Bachelor of Science (this includes freshman and transfer)
The BS Prelicensure program is designed to prepare students for a career in professional nursing practice. This is a traditional, four-year program beginning in the freshman year. A limited number of transfer students are accepted annually. Graduates of the BS program are eligible to take the National Council Licensing Examination (NCLEX) to be licensed as a registered nurse (R.N.) and may apply for the
Public Health Nursing Certificate
from the California Board of Registered Nursing. The BS program is a UCLA-certified capstone major. During the last clinical course in the fourth year, each student plans and implements a clinically-based Scholarly Project designed to improve the system of care provided to patients and their families.
Students successfully completing the BS degree also acquire an educational foundation for entry into the master's program that prepares nurses for advanced practice roles such as nurse practitioners, clinical nurse specialists and administrators in primary and acute care.
View Requirements
Master of Science in Nursing - Master's Entry Clinical Nurse (MECN
)
The UCLA School of Nursing has an option within the Master of Science in Nursing degree program that is designed to prepare individuals with a baccalaureate degree in another discipline for a career in nursing. This two-year pre-licensure program includes summer enrollment between the first and second years.  Those who complete the program are granted the Master in Science in Nursing (MSN) degree and are eligible to take the
National Council Licensing Examination
(NCLEX) to be licensed as
registered nurses
(RN). They are then prepared to practice nursing at the bedside in a hospital setting.
Graduates of the program may also apply for a
Public Health Nursing Certificate
from the California Board of Registered Nursing.
View Requirements
Master of Science in Nursing - Advanced Practice Registered Nurse (APRN
)
The School of Nursing offers a two-year course of graduate study leading to the Master of Science in Nursing (MSN) designed to prepare registered nurses with a bachelor's degree in nursing for advanced practice. The MSN Advanced Practice Registered Nurse/Post-licensure program prepares nurse practitioners and clinical nurse specialists for the national certification examinations in the specialty that they are admitted into.
Advanced practice specialties offered through the UCLA School of Nursing include:
Adult/Gerontology Primary Care Population
Adult/Gerontology Acute Care Population
Family Population
Pediatric Population
View Requirements
Doctor of Nursing Practice (DNP)
A DNP is a doctorally prepared, advanced practice nurse and a clinical expert and leader on the translation of evidence-base practice to improve health outcomes on a systems level. The DNP degree program is a clinical practice program for working professional nurses. You will integrate competencies for advanced nursing practice roles in clinical practice, leadership, health policy and education, as well as further develop your scholarship capacity in evidence-based practice.
Highlights:
Translate research into clinical practice
Elevate your executive leadership skills
Influence patient outcomes and population health
Earn your doctorate in less than
two
years
Continue working full-time throughout the program
Clinical practicum and
DNP Scholarly Project
can be performed at your workplace
View Requirements
Doctor of Philosophy (PhD)
The UCLA School of Nursing (SON) offers a Doctor of Philosophy (PhD) degree program with the goal in developing the foundation of knowledge upon which the practice of the profession is based. The UCLA SON PhD program aims to develop nurse scientists who can conduct research and generate theory that incorporate the influence of the biologic, psychosocial and physical environments on health and healthcare. Areas of focus and interest include, but are not limited to: health of diverse and vulnerable populations, older adults and persons with chronic and communicable diseases.
Doctoral graduates serve as leaders who educate, influence practice, advance science, optimize healthcare delivery and influence healthcare policy worldwide.
View Requirements
UC Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certificate Program
The UC Psychiatric Mental Health Nurse Practitioner Certificate Program curriculum is competency-based and aligned with the National Organization for Nurse Practitioner Faculties (NONPF) core and population specific competencies which include: scientific foundations, leadership, quality, practice inquiry, technology and information literacy, policy, health delivery system and ethics. The curriculum is built upon a framework which supports trainee knowledge, skills and attitude for development of the PMHNP role. This is supported through didactic content and a workplace-based clinical internship. The curricular framework and descriptions are:
PMHNP role development: To build excellence in practice as a PMHNP
Interprofessional collaboration: To support communication and collaboration across professions
Structural competency: To create healthcare professionals who understand the effect of social inequity, racism and limited access to mental healthcare on individuals and communities
Self-reflective practice: To gain awareness of self, others and situation in the context of professional identity and role development
View Requirements
If you are interested in receiving more information, please fill out the
Prospective Applicant Interest Form
or use the
QR Code
.
Unsure about which Program is appropriate for you?
See the School of Nursing Programs Pathways map.
View the map
Accreditation
The baccalaureate degree program in nursing, master's degree program in nursing, and Doctor of Nursing Practice program at the UCLA School of Nursing are accredited by the Commission on Collegiate Nursing Education (
http://www.ccneaccreditation.org)
.
All programs of study are approved by the Academic Senate of the University of California and the California Board of Registered Nursing. Curricular oversight and periodic reviews are conducted by the UCLA Academic Senate's Undergraduate and Graduate Councils. UCLA holds accreditation from the Western Association of Schools and Colleges (WASC).
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Tiverton Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
sonsaff@sonnet.ucla.edu
Information
Faculty Directory
Nursing at UCLA Health
Useful Links
Current Student Website
SON Intranet
IT Support
SON Email
eValue Login
Getting Around
Campus Map
Parking Information
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login