Admissions – UCLA Biomedical Research Minor
Twitter
Dribbble
Admissions to the Minor in Biomedical Research
Applications
are accepted in Fall, Winter and Spring quarters.
Quarterly Applications open Monday of Week 4 and deadline to submit application is Friday of Week 7.
The final application deadline is the Fall quarter of the third year (Winter quarter of the third year for transfer students).
Introductory Courses
Before you apply to the Minor in Biomedical Research, you must take
one of the following introductory courses
. These classes use different formats to expose you to concepts central to scientific research. Each class is designed to be accessible to beginning students as early as their first year of college.  Check the course catalog for more complete descriptions. The introductory courses are:
Biomedical Research 5HA – Biomedical Research: Concepts and Strategies
. In this “research deconstruction” course, outstanding research faculty are invited to deliver a seminar on cutting edge research recently conducted in their laboratory. The instructor uses each seminar as a platform for a series of classes that explore fundamental concepts and experimental approaches employed in the research. Topics may include cancer, rare genetic diseases, metabolic disorders, etc., as well as more basic research in cell and molecular biology.
Biomedical Research 10H – Research Training in Genes, Genetics and Genomics
. This discovery-based research course gives students hands-on experience in a laboratory research environment. Students in BR10H become members of the Undergraduate Research Consortium in Functional Genomics (URCFG) and perform original research of interest to the greater scientific community. The course focuses on topics including (but not limited to) molecular and developmental biology,
Drosophila
husbandry and genetics, fine tissue dissection, fluorescence microscopy, and data analysis. Scientific writing and thinking skills are expanded as students incorporate their own novel data into a grant proposal and research manuscript. BR10H has published four papers in peer reviewed journals with 135, 264, 276, and 339 undergraduate authors, respectively.
Note – To enroll in BMD RES 10H, you must first complete a brief application, located
here
.
Honors Collegium 70A – Genetic Engineering in Medicine, Agriculture and Law.
This course is designed to introduce non-life science majors to basic principles of molecular biology, their applications to areas such as genetic engineering, diagnostic screening and forensics, and the ethical and legal questions that arise from this work. Sponsored by Dr. Robert Goldberg’s HHMI Professors Award, HNRS 70A has been highly successful and consistently receives outstanding evaluations from its students.
Molecular
Cell and Developmental Biology 30H – Collaborative Undergraduate Research Laboratory in Yeast, Genetics, and Molecular Biology.
This course is limited to 24 students in a Collaborative Undergraduate Research Laboratory (CURL), sponsored by Howard Hughes Medical Institute Professors Program. Basic training in biological research, covering topics in molecular genetics, molecular biology, model organism biology, and data analysis.
Application to the Minor in Biomedical Research (deadline is Friday of Week 7 at 11:59PM)
Applications to the Minor are accepted for the Fall, Winter, and Spring quarters during the academic year.
Spring 2023 applications open on Monday, April 24th and close on Friday, May 19th at 11:59pm. To apply please visit the
Biomedical Research Minor Application
via Bruin Learn.
Biomedical Research Minor
Hershey Hall 220B
bmdresminor@lifesci.ucla.edu
Scroll to top