Newsroom | BE
Select Page
Search for:
X
UCLA Bioengineers Develop Artificial Skin to Outfit Underwater Robots with a Sense of Touch
Feb 5, 2024 UCLA Samueli Newsroom Autonomous robots have been used for underwater exploration, but they are limited by the lack of human dexterity. Without a sense of touch, it is difficult for...
Read More
UCLA Bioengineering Student Receives 2024 AHA Predoctoral Fellowship
Jan 29, 2024
UCLA Bioengineering Student, Guorui (Gary) Chen, has received the prestigious 2024 AHA Predoctoral Fellowship from the American Heart Association (AHA). This esteemed fellowship aims to enhance the integrated research of promising students pursuing careers as...
UCLA Samueli Bioengineering Professor Named Optica Fellow
Jan 9, 2024
Jan 9, 2024 UCLA Samueli Newsroom Liang Gao, an associate professor of bioengineering at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, was elected as a fellow of Optica, an international professional society for advancing optics and photonics. Gao, who leads...
Promising Engineered Compound Fights Space Bone Loss
Dec 18, 2023
University of California - Los Angeles Health Sciences A new study published in a Nature Partner Journal, npj Microgravity, finds an engineered compound given to mice aboard the International Space Station (ISS) largely prevented the bone loss associated with time...
2 UCLA Engineers Named to 2023 National Academy of Inventors
Dec 18, 2023
Dec 12, 2023 UCLA Samueli Newsroom Eric P. Y. Chiou — a professor of mechanical and aerospace engineering — and Paul Weiss — a distinguished professor of chemistry and biochemistry, and materials science and engineering — at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering have...
8 UCLA Engineers Among World’s Most Influential Researchers
Nov 20, 2023
Nov 15, 2023 UCLA Samueli Newsroom Clarivate released today its list of 2023 Highly Cited Researchers, including eight faculty members from the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering. Since 2002, Clarivate has released an annual list of researchers who have demonstrated...
UCLA Engineering Professors Receive Office of Naval Research Young Investigator Awards
Nov 15, 2023
Nov 8, 2023 UCLA Samueli Newsroom Two UCLA Samueli School of Engineering assistant professors — Sergio Carbajo and Jun Chen — have received the Young Investigator Program Awards from the Office of Naval Research (ONR) in support of their respective research....
From Sea Monkeys to Shelf-Stable Insulin
Nov 14, 2023
It’s not every day that a gag gift at a holiday party sparks a new line of research, but that turned out to be the case for Heather Maynard, a polymer scientist at the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA). As she watched little shrimp-like sea monkeys emerge...
UCLA Engineers Find AI-Based Solution to Communicate Information around Opaque Walls
Nov 14, 2023
Nov 7, 2023 UCLA Samueli Newsroom Traditional wireless communications have relied on long-wave electromagnetic microwave and radio frequencies, but the growing need for faster data transfer rates has presented performance challenges. Shorter wavelengths, such as the...
Professor Jaimie Stewart receives Sloan Matter-to-Life Seed Grant
Nov 3, 2023
Jaimie Marie Stewart, an assistant professor of bioengineering at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, has received a Sloan Matter-to-Life Seed Grant in the research area of Building Life from the Alfred P. Sloan Foundation. Her project proposes to build synthetic...
« Older Entries
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA