UCLA Bioengineering Student Receives 2024 AHA Predoctoral Fellowship | BE
Select Page
Search for:
X
UCLA Bioengineering Student Receives 2024 AHA Predoctoral Fellowship
Jan 29, 2024
UCLA Bioengineering Student, Guorui (Gary) Chen, has received the prestigious 2024 AHA Predoctoral Fellowship from the American Heart Association (AHA).
This esteemed fellowship aims to enhance the integrated research of promising students pursuing careers as scientists who are aiming to improve global cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, and brain health. This two-year program provides $63,788 in funding for stipends, project support, and health insurance.
Gary is currently a PhD candidate in the Department of Bioengineering, specializing in the Biomedical Instrument Division. His research revolves around the development of innovative medical devices aimed at addressing unmet clinical needs in cardiology and endovascular intervention. Under the guidance of his mentor,
Jun Chen,
Assistant Professor of Bioengineering and Director of the Wearable Bioelectronics Research Group, Gary is committed to translating his medical device discoveries into practical solutions that contribute significantly to longer and healthier lives for all individuals.
Gary attributes his remarkable achievement to the vibrant and interdisciplinary research environment at UCLA Samueli. The interdisciplinary nature here, fostering his research version of blending engineering with medicine, has been pivotal in his academic journey. He expresses his deep gratitude to his mentor, Prof. Jun Chen, as well as his co-sponsor and collaborator team for their enthusiastic support of his research endeavors. During the fellowship period, Gary will continue to advance scientific understanding and make groundbreaking discoveries in the field of medical devices and cardiology.
Among Gary’s other awards and recognitions are the Graduate Student Gold Award and Arthur Nowick Graduate Student Award from the Materials Research Society; the National Award for Outstanding Students Abroad with Extraordinary Prize; and the Amazon Fellowship from Science Hub for Humanity and Artificial Intelligence.
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA