Undergraduate Research | BE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Undergraduate Research
Research is a very important part of undergraduate education in Bioengineering at UCLA. Undergraduates work in UCLA faculty laboratories in the School of Engineering, College of Letters and Science, and the Medical School alongside graduate students and post-doctoral scholars to solve open-ended problems at the cutting edge of bioengineering. Research projects can be highly rewarding, allowing students explore various fields within bioengineering in depth to prepare them for future careers in industry, medicine, and research. Undergraduate students can also use their research experiences as a basis for course credit. Over 95% of UCLA Bioengineering undergraduates participate in research before graduation.
UCLA Undergraduate Research Center
The Undergraduate Research Center – Sciences serves current UCLA undergraduates and faculty in all areas of the life and physical sciences, engineering, and mathematics. Our primary mission is to promote, develop, and celebrate undergraduate student research with the overall goal of enhancing undergraduate education and preparing students, including those from disadvantaged backgrounds, for academic and research careers.
UGRAD Internship Program
The Undergraduate Internship Program (UIP)
is a new initiative from the UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science to assist Samueli Engineering students by providing resources, information, and opportunities. UIP hosts multiple workshops throughout the year to better prepare students in securing an internship, offers a seminar class further breaking down the internship process, co-hosts the ESUC Industry Liaison Committee along with ESUC, and offers organizations the resource to track attendance of their events.
Get to know this year’s team of peer advisors
here
!
Facebook
X
Instagram
Linkedin
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA