The UCLA Blum Center on Poverty and Health in Latin America | Blumcenter pages
Working across boundaries to reduce poverty
and health inequalities in Latin America
Home
About Us
Our Team
History and Mission
Leadership
Affiliated Faculty
UCLA Campus Affiliations
Partners
COEMH
Training
Coursework
UCLA Blum Center Summer Scholars
Related Academic Programs at UCLA
Programming
Global Health Minor
Research
Research
Student Research
Latin America Info
Summit 2017: Health Equity in the Americas
Policy
News
UC Blum Federation
Follow @UCLABlumCenter
Begin main content
News
Files
UCLA Campus Affiliations
Anderson School of Management
UCLA Anderson is among the leading business schools in the world, annually providing management education across MBA, Masters and doctoral programs, and to more than 2,000 working professionals through executive education programs.
Burkle Center for International Relations
The Burkle Center fosters research on and promotes discussion of international relations, U.S. foreign policy, and complex issues of global cooperation and conflict. We bring the brightest minds in these fields to UCLA and encourage faculty and students to explore and shape debate.
Center for Brazilian Studies
The purpose of the Center for Brazilian studies at UCL
A is to encourage cooperative research and academic initiatives between UCLA and Brazil. Our mission is to promote greater understanding and involvement with Brazil including academia, public sector, business and professional communities and the general public.
Center of Expertise on Migration and Health (COEMH)
The mission of the Center of Expertise on Migration and Health (COEMH) is to improve health and eliminate health disparities of international migrants, refugees, and internally displaced people around the world. Serving local, national and international communities, we will seek new knowledge to forge sustainable improvements in the health of migrant and refugee populations through basic and action-oriented research, policy analyses, applied learning opportunities, and innovative dissemination activities.
Center for Health Policy Research
The UCLA Center for Health Policy Research is one of the nation's leading health policy research
centers and the premier source of health policy information for California. The Center improves the public’s health through high-quality, objective, and evidence-based research and data that informs effective policymaking.
Center for Mexican Studies
The UCLA Center for Mexican Studies is dedicated to organizing and sponsoring graduate student and faculty research on Mexico, faculty and student exchanges with Mexican universities, and Mexico-related events at UCLA. The Center promotes collaborative and bilateral research on Mexican social, cultural and economic issues, relations between the U.S. and Mexico, and Mexico's prominent place in global affairs.
Center for Southern Cone
Studies
The Center for Southern Cone Studies is dedicated to promoting research on an important region of Latin America, comprised of multiple nations, that shares many characteristics with the United States: climate and ecology; large agricultural and pastoral industries; a history of European and Asian immigration; and a large middle class. The Center sponsors activities of interest to the international academic community and to a general audience.
Center for the Study of International Migration
The UCLA Center for the Study of International Migration seeks to foster research and instruction on international migration. In our view, the study of migration is like the process of migration itself: an activity that cuts across boundaries, in this case intellectual, and therefore one best pursued by drawing insights and methods from a variety of disciplines.
Center for the Study of Urban Poverty
CSUP’s primary mission is to encourage and facilitate academic research into the causes and consequences of urban poverty and the effectiveness of policies aimed at alleviating poverty. The Center’s research agenda focuses on three broad issues: poverty in Los Angeles, the working poor, and transition to work/disadvantaged low skill workers.
Center for World Health
The UCLA Center for World Health's vision is to heal humankind through shared knowledge and compassion, and to make a difference in people’s lives throughout the world. Our mission is to improve the health of people and communities around the world through education, research, and service, and to guide the next generation of leaders to use their vision, talent, and commitment to transform the practice of world health to make a sustainable difference.
Clinical and Translational Science Institute
The UCLA Clinical and Translational Science Institute (CTSI) is a research partnership of UCLA, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Charles R. Drew University of Medicine and Science and the Los Angeles Biomedical Institute at Harbor UCLA Medical Center. Its mission is to bring biomedical innovations to bear on the greatest health needs of Los Angeles—the largest and one of the most ethnically, socially and economically diverse counties in the United States.
Global Public Affairs at Luskin
GPA @ UCLA Luskin provides intellectual and professional preparation to future experts who plan to work within the realm of global public affairs. We offer four different Certificates in Global Public Affairs, which can be obtained in addition to any MPP, MURP, or MSW degree from the Luskin School. We also offer summer fellowships abroad through GPA’s International Practice Pathway.
International Institute
The UCLA International Institute educates students, supports scholarship on the world at
UCLA and serves as a campus and community resource. With a history dating back to 1958, the Institute is the central hub for global and area studies on campus. Its more than 25 centers and programs support innovative multidisciplinary research on specific world regions and pressing global issues; its rigorous academic degree programs promote the study of globalization, international development, global health, and diverse regions of the world.
International Medical Graduate Program
This program provides bilingual English/Spanish IMGs, who are committed to the care of our state's underserved populations, with a comprehensive program to pass the USMLE Step 1, USMLE Step 2 CK, USMLE Step 2 CS and to compete for a California Family Medicine residency training program intern position. The objective of the UCLA IMG pre-residency training program is to increase the number of bilingual and bicultural Hispanic family physicians practicing in our underserved communities.
Institute for Research on Labor and Employment
The Institute for Research on Labor and Employment is a multidisciplinary research center dedicated to the study, teaching, and discussion of labor and employment issues. Through the work of its units - IRLE Academic Unit, Center for Labor Research and Education, Human Resources Roundtable and the Labor Occupational Safety and Health program – the Institute forms wide-ranging research agendas that carry UCLA into the Los Angeles community and beyond.
Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Equity
The UCLA Kaiser Permanente Center for Health Equity focuses on reducing disparities in incidence, prevalence, mortality and burden of disease experienced by disadvantaged and underserved populations. The Center concentrates on “keeping the public healthy” by developing, implementing, evaluating and disseminating effective and efficient strategies to address inequities.
Latin American Institute
The UCLA Latin American Institute is a vital regional, national, and international resource on Latin America. Since its founding in 1959, the LAI has equipped generations of leaders, professionals, and students with the information and skills required for understanding the vast and complex region of Latin America. The LAI supports research by funding grants and foreign-language instruction, and disseminates recent scholarship through conferences, workshops, public programs, teacher training, and publications.
Luskin School of Public Affairs
At the convergence of the fields of social work, urban planning, and policymaking, the UCLA Luskin School of Public Affairs identifies and develops emerging areas of research and teaching, cultivating leaders and change agents who advance solutions to society’s most pressing problems. Founded in 1994, UCLA Luskin incorporates the best practices in scholarship, research, and teaching in the fields of social work, urban and regional planning, and policymaking.
WORLD Policy Analysis Center
The WORLD Policy Analysis Center engages in a rigorous research process to
gather and transform massive quantities of legal and policy data into the quantifiable, accessible, user-friendly resources found on this website, including interactive maps, tables, and downloadable datasets. With an international, multilingual, and multidisciplinary team, WORLD works to carefully select and analyze the best global sources of information to minimize errors.
Please add me to your email list