The UCLA Blum Center on Poverty and Health in Latin America | Blumcenter pages
Working across boundaries to reduce poverty
and health inequalities in Latin America
Home
About Us
Our Team
History and Mission
Leadership
Affiliated Faculty
UCLA Campus Affiliations
Partners
COEMH
Training
Coursework
UCLA Blum Center Summer Scholars
Related Academic Programs at UCLA
Programming
Global Health Minor
Research
Research
Student Research
Latin America Info
Summit 2017: Health Equity in the Americas
Policy
News
UC Blum Federation
Follow @UCLABlumCenter
Begin main content
News
Files
The Center of Expertise on Migration and Health
The UCLA Blum Center partners closely with
The Center of Expertise on Migration and Health (COEMH),
part of the
University of California Global Health Institute (UCGHI)
. Leveraging talent at all 10 UC campuses, the two centers work synergistically on global health issues impacting Latino immigrants and their communities.
Vision
Worldwide populations in movement will have
health
and
dignity
.
Mission
COEMH provides leadership to improve health equity of migrants and refugees around the world. We conduct action-oriented research and policy analyses, create learning opportunities, and disseminate knowledge using innovative methods. We draw upon multidisciplinary scholarship from all UC campuses and our international collaborators.
Key Features
A multi-campus, multi-disciplinary
network
of experts, students and partners engaged in
community-based
research, education and policy innovations.
Hands-on, action oriented
learning experiences related to migrant health issues through fieldwork placements in migrants' communities of origin and destination as well as NGOs and public agencies that interact with immigrant and refugee populations.
Opportunities for
transnational collaboration
between UC and internationally-based researchers.
Support
for scholars, faculty and students to develop and showcase work in the field of migration and health.
Upcoming Events
Visit the
COEMH
website for updates on events and activities.
Co-Directors
Co-Associate Directors
Michael Rodríguez          Marc Schenker             David López-Carr         Xóchitl Castañeda
UC Los Angeles                  UC Davis                   UC Santa Barbara              UC Berkeley
Please add me to your email list