The UCLA Blum Center on Poverty and Health in Latin America | Blumcenter pages
Working across boundaries to reduce poverty
and health inequalities in Latin America
Home
About Us
Our Team
History and Mission
Leadership
Affiliated Faculty
UCLA Campus Affiliations
Partners
COEMH
Training
Coursework
UCLA Blum Center Summer Scholars
Related Academic Programs at UCLA
Programming
Global Health Minor
Research
Research
Student Research
Latin America Info
Summit 2017: Health Equity in the Americas
Policy
News
UC Blum Federation
Follow @UCLABlumCenter
Begin main content
News
Files
UCLA Global Health Minor, Michael A. Rodriguez, MD, MPH, Chair
The minor in Global Health allows students to develop an interdisciplinary understanding of health issues in a global context. Through a broad inventory of courses, the minor in Global Health provides a solid foundation in, and familiarity with, social determinants of health, epidemiology, environmental health, nutrition, data collection, and evaluation methods.
Students undertaking the Global Health Minor explore the institutional, economic, logistic, legal, social and artistic challenges facing global health solutions, investigate the health implications of globalization, as well as address issues of social justice and development, which are crucial to understanding the determinants of health issues around the world.
Through completing the Global Health Minor, students will be able to:
Understand the fundamental issues that affect health equity and healthcare around the world;
Use specific discipline-based methodologies (from engineering, political science, public health, etc.) to examine issues of health inequity and perceptions of health;
Understand how cultural, social and environmental factors and issues of health equity influence the patterns of disease among people and populations, with emphasis on health in low-resource settings for local, regional or international contexts;
Enhance their ability to be culturally sensitive, curious, understanding of other cultures and cross-culturally competent.
Faculty associated with the Global Health Minor come from across UCLA from such areas as the College of Letters and Science, the School of Arts and Architecture, the David Geffen School of Medicine, and the Fielding School of Public Health, allowing for a truly multidisciplinary minor. With courses from over forty departments, the minor spans the breadth of the global health field.
Faculty Administrative Committee, 2017-18
Michael A. Rodriguez
, MD, MPH (Family Medicine), Chair, Global Health
David H. Gere
, PhD (World Arts and Cultures/Dance)
Ippolytos Kalofonos
, MD, PhD , MPH (Psychiatry and Biobehavioral Sciences)
Michael F. Lofchie
, PhD (Political Science)
Ninez A. Ponce
, MPP, PhD (Health Policy and Management)
Academic Counseling
Magda Yamamoto
, Academic Counselor
UCLA International Institute Academic Programs
Office of Academic Advising
10373 Bunche Hall, Mail Code 148703
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1487
Tel: 310-206-6571
undergrads@international.ucla.edu
Nimesh Hasji
, Undergraduate Counselor
UCLA International Institute Academic Programs
Office of Academic Advising
10373 Bunche Hall, Mail Code 148703
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1487
Tel: 310-206-6571
undergrads@international.ucla.edu
Students: Please include your UID# in all correspondence.
Academic Counseling drop in hours:
Monday-Friday 9:00am-11:30am and 1:30pm-4:00pm in 10373 Bunche (10th floor)
Program Requirements and Courses
Worksheet: Global Health Minor
Global Health Minor Course Descriptions
Spring 2018 Course List
Declaring the Global Health Minor
Students can declare the Global Health minor if they meet the following eligibility criteria:
All preparation courses have been completed and final grades have been posted in the DARS
The preparation courses must meet a minimum of 2.0 GPA
Student is in good academic standing (minimum 2.0 cumulative GPA)
Students who meet these criteria can declare the Global Health minor by submitting the online petition. Please allow two weeks for your records to be updated.
Note that at least 20 units of the Global Health minor, both lower and upper division, have to be unique to the minor and cannot overlap with the major or another minor.
Source and More Information
Please add me to your email list