The UCLA Blum Center on Poverty and Health in Latin America | Blumcenter pages
Working across boundaries to reduce poverty
and health inequalities in Latin America
Home
About Us
Our Team
History and Mission
Leadership
Affiliated Faculty
UCLA Campus Affiliations
Partners
COEMH
Training
Coursework
UCLA Blum Center Summer Scholars
Related Academic Programs at UCLA
Programming
Global Health Minor
Research
Research
Student Research
Latin America Info
Summit 2017: Health Equity in the Americas
Policy
News
UC Blum Federation
Follow @UCLABlumCenter
Begin main content
News
Files
Educational Programming and Events of the UCLA Blum Center
Academic Year Programs and Events
Throughout the academic year, the UCLA Blum Center hosts a variety of educational events on campus to engage students, faculty, staff, and community members on a wide range of topics related to health, poverty, and Latin American populations. UCLA Blum Center programs have a diverse focus and are designed to engage participants through interactive and collaborative formats. To explore the inter-disciplinary nature of the study of social determinants of health for Latin American populations, the UCLA Blum Centers partners with units across campus, as well as local organizations in Los Angeles.
Past events co-hosted by the UCLA Blum Center have included documentary screenings, panel discussions, informal student networking programs, and innovation contests. The following programs have been put on by the UCLA Blum Center to-date:
Chicanos for Community Medicine Annual Pre-Health Conference
2018 Robert Wood Johnson Foundation: Sharing Knowledge to Build a Culture of Health Conference
Co-Sponsor of the
Los Angeles Global Health Conference
Co-sponsor of
"Demand Solutions: Ideas for Improving Quality of Life"
along with the
Inter-American Development Bank
and the
UC Berkeley Blum Center for Developing Economies
. The annual conference, which is held in Washington D.C., brings together some of the most innovative and creative minds in the world to discuss and share innovative solutions that address development issues in Latin America and the Caribbean.
Screening of the Inter-American Development Bank-produced documentary
Water Everlasting? The Battle to Secure Haiti's Most Essential Resource
followed by a panel discussion about water infrastructure and systems governance in Haiti following the 2010 earthquake. Co-hosted by the
UCLA Institute of the Environment and Sustainability
.
Student networking and engagement nights with the
UCLA Office of Residential Life Theme Communities
.
Co-sponsor of the
Second Annual UCLA Inventathon
, a 24-hour competition to create and pitch the best solution to a health care challenge.
Screening of the documentary
Food Chains
,
which exposes the exploitation of farmworkers across the US and the fight to improve working conditions. The screening was followed by a panel discussion, facilitated by UCLA Blum Center Director Michael Rodriguez, and was featured as part of the Resnick Program for Food and Law Policy's first inaugural
UCLA-Harvard Law School Food Law and Policy Conference
.
"Separating Facts from Fiction: Public Health Implications of Child Migrants from Central America,"
a panel discussion co-hosted along with the
UCLA Latin American Institute
that explored the public health issues confronting child migrants from across Central American arriving to the United States.
The
UCLA Workshop on Migration and Health
, an annual event co-hosted with the
UCLA Program on International Migration
that brings together researchers from across borders to discuss groundbreaking research that explores health challenges for migrant communities.
Plenary session at 2015 UC Global Health Day
"No federal immigration reform? What states can do to improve the health of undocumented workers,"
a panel discussion that explored the health implications of state's policies toward undocumented immigrants in the United States.
The UCLA Blum Center Spring Conference (2013-2014)
Background
The UCLA Blum Center Annual Spring Conference on Poverty and Health in Latin America is designed to advance knowledge on policy and programming solutions aimed at creating more equitable health in Latin America. The UCLA Blum Center hosted its Inaugural Spring Conference on May 1st, 2013 in DeNeve Auditorium on the UCLA campus. The theme of the conference was
Informing Responses to Reduce Poverty and Improve Health in Latin America
and the event attracted more than 150 researchers, students and medical professionals to participate in a robust program. To learn more about the events of our Inaugural Spring Conference, read
the event program
.
Our Second UCLA Blum Center Spring Conference,
Connecting International Partners to Strengthen Health Systems and Respond to Health Inequities
, was held May 6 & 7, 2014 again in the DeNeve Auditorium.
The conference drew approximately 150 attendees, including health ministry and other government and community officials from 10 Latin American nations to present and exchange knowledge and practical innovations around public policy, health systems, results-based programming models, and health issues in the region. Generous supporters and collaborators of the conference included the
Robert Wood Johnson Foundation
, the
Inter-American Development Bank
and the
Salud Mesoamérica 2015 Initiative
.
You can view our photo album from the 2014 Second Annual Spring Conference
here
.
Presentations from the 2014 Second Spring Conference:
Event program
Opening Remarks by Dr. Michael Rodriguez
Keynote Address by Dr. William Vega: International Partnerships for Improving Health and Reducing Poverty: Human Capital and Health Systems Status in Latin America
Plenary Session 1
Strengthening Health Systems and Workforce Development: The UCLA Blum Center
Health Workforce Training and Management Programs at Work
Health System Reform and Development of Human Capital
Plenary Session 2
Advancing a Culture of Health: Multi-Sectoral Collaboration
Plenary Session 3
Independent Verification of Results in Results-Based Financing
Institute of Health Metrics and Evaluation: Innovations in Data Collection for SM2015
How SM2015: Uses Data to Reduce Health Disparities
Plenary Session 4
Using Demand-Side Incentives to Scale-up Maternal Health Care: Examples from the Mesoamerican Region
Using Supply-Side Incentives to Increase Quality of Care: Decentralizing Health Services in Honduras
Scaling Up Coverage and Quality in Argentina: Plan Nacer to Plan Sumar
Please add me to your email list