UCLA Astronomy Division
Academics
About our faculty
Groundbreaking research, cutting-edge technology, award-winning faculty – UCLA’s Division of Astronomy & Astrophysics 
                offers a rewarding environment to pursue higher education and topical research. All members of the Division carry out 
                active research programs that garner widespread international recognition.
“
The biggest excitement is looking in detail at a very, very distant galaxy that turns out to be interesting. 
                  Their star clusters are a gold mine of data. -- Matt Malkan
Doctoral students can participate in a variety 
                of research projects, which frequently incorporate observations with the world’s largest ground-based telescopes, orbiting 
                observatories, and other astronomical facilities.
Our PhD recipients go on to highly productive careers in academia, government, industry and business. Many have obtained 
                prestigious postdoctoral fellowships from entities such as the National Research Council, Hubble, NSF, Caltech Millikan, and 
                Princeton Russell. UCLA faculty have access to numerous observational facilities, including the 10-m telescopes of the W. M. 
                Keck Observatory in Hawaii, and the Division has strong bonds with Physics, and with Earth, Planetary and Space Science.
“
Measuring the oxygen content of galaxies over cosmic time is one of the key methods we have for 
                  understanding how galaxies grow, as well as how they spew out gas into the intergalactic medium. -- Alice Shapley
There is a lot going on here. From planets to stars to galaxies to cosmology, and from big telescopes to pure 
                theory to the Infrared Laboratory, there is likely someone working on a project that interests you. Here’s a synopsis 
                of our UCLA faculty and their research projects.
Katsushi Arisaka
has focused on dark matter experiments, such as XENON100 at Gran Sasso in Italy, and its successor, 
                XENON 1Ton. His group is also collaborating with DarkSide and MAX.
Eric Becklin
focuses on the observational studies of the regions around the Massive Black Hole in the center of the 
                Milky Way and other regions of star formation in the Galaxy. He is the Chief Scientific Advisor on SOFIA.
Ferdinand Coroniti
studies space and plasma astrophysics, including physics of the Earth's magnetosphere (especially 
                the dynamics occurring during substorms and magnetic storms), pulsars, relativistic winds, and supernova remnants, and 
                the origin of the cosmic large-scale magnetic field.
Mike Fitzgerald
is interested in extrasolar planets and their formation using indirect and direct techniques such as 
                adaptive optics, coronagraphy, and interferometry. He also works to develop infrared instrumentation.
Steve Furlanetto
is a theoretical cosmologist studying the first generations of galaxies in the Universe, their 
                interactions with the Universe around them, and their observable signatures.
Andrea Ghez
and her collaborators are carrying out a diffraction-limited study of the Galaxy's central stellar cluster. 
                This program has provided strong evidence for a supermassive black hole at the center of the Milky Way and is continuing 
                to study the environs of this region.
Brad Hansen
studies the evolution of white dwarf stars and the formation and evolution of planetary systems.
David Jewitt
focuses on primitive bodies of the solar system, especially comets.
James Larkin
develops instrumentation for adaptive optics systems in order to study the evolution of galaxies and to 
                directly search for extrasolar planets.
Matt Malkan
studies the nature of active galactic nuclei and quasars, and the evolution of young galaxies in the 
                high-redshift Universe. He is also working on the cosmic production of infrared radiation.
Jean-Luc Margot
and his group studies the formation and evolution of habitable worlds, primarily by quantifying the 
                physical and dynamical properties of planets and exoplanets.
Ian McLean
studies star formation, low-mass stars, brown dwarfs and exoplanets using infrared imaging and spectroscopy. 
                He founded UCLA's infrared laboratory for astrophysics in 1989 and was the principal investigator for the NIRSPEC infrared 
                spectrometer and the MOSFIRE multi-object infrared spectrometer and camera on the Keck telescopes.
Mark Morris
studies the fate of massive stars and star clusters at the Galactic center, and is trying to determine the 
                character and the origin of the magnetic field in the central few hundred parsecs of the Galaxy. He also studies the hot, 
                diffuse gas at the Galactic center with the Chandra and XMM X-ray observatories.
Smadar Naoz
is a theoretical astrophysicist studying wide range of different  dynamical problems from exoplanets, stars 
                and black holes. She also studies the formation of structure in the early Universe.
William Newman
is a theorist who employs computational and analytic methods to study dynamical problems germane to 
                stellar and galactic dynamics, astrophysical jets and magnetohydrodynamic processes, as well as statistical problems is 
                astronomy and cosmology.
Rene Ong
focuses on high-energy processes in the universe, using gamma-ray observations to understand sources such as 
                supernova remnants, binary systems, and AGN. Another important area of interest is the search for particle dark matter 
                using astrophysical probes such as gamma rays and anti-matter.
Erik Petigura
conducts observations of extrasolar planets and their host stars using ground- and space-based telescopes. 
                He's interested in understanding the diversity of planets in the universe and uncovering the physical processes that account 
                for this diversity.
Michael Rich
works on galaxy evolution from a near-field cosmology perspective, using the Keck, Hubble, and other telescopes. 
                Studies encompass the Galactic bulge, Milky Way, Local Group galaxies, the extended halos of nearby galaxies, and include 
                galaxy evolution using UV astronomy from the GALEX satellite archives. New wide field imaging surveys include the Dark 
                Energy Camera and a novel telescope designed to push to the extremes of low surface brightness.
Alice Shapley
uses optical and infrared imaging and spectroscopic observations of high-redshift galaxies to understand 
                how galaxies form, evolve, and affect their intergalactic environments. Specifically of interest are the star-formation and 
                metal-enrichment histories of galaxies, the development of galaxy structure, and the important process of "feedback."
Tommaso Treu
is attracted to the invisible universe: dark energy, dark matter, and black holes. He is also fascinated by 
                the photons and baryons that lighten up the dark universe. His group uses a variety of tools (including adaptive optics, to 
                ground and space based imaging and spectroscopy, gravitational lensing) to observe these phenomena, and then models them 
                using Bayesian inference techniques.
Tuan Do
works to understand the formation of the nuclei of galaxies - He's currently studying the composition and star 
                formation history of the Milky Way nuclear star cluster and how these stars interact with the supermassive black hole at 
                the Galactic center.
Jean Turner
uses the Keck telescopes, the VLA, infrared, millimeter, and sub-millimeter telescopes to study star formation 
                in starbursts, especially super star cluster formation.
Roger Ulrich
studies the physics of the Sun using Mt. Wilson observatory.
Vladimir Vassiliev
focuses on the high-energy astrophysics processes in the Universe utilizing the VERITAS ground-based 
                gamma-ray observatory, including indirect detection of dark matter and study of intergalactic magnetic fields. He also 
                develops novel imaging techniques for a future ground based gamma-ray observatory called Cherenkov Telescope Array (CTA).
Ned Wright
works on cosmology and infrared astronomy primarily using space data from COBE, WMAP, Spitzer and WISE. He is 
                the principal investigator on WISE, which has just been re-activated as NEOWISE-R to search for Near Earth Objects.
Ben Zuckerman
is interested in identifying young stars near Earth in order to search for planets and understand the 
                formation of solar systems.
Find out more about our programs.
Announcements
Open academic positions
Annual reports and newsletters
UCLA Newsroom
UCLA policies on sexual harassment & violence
Diversity @ UCLA
Academic Resources
Academic calendar
Schedule of classes
MyUCLA
BruinLearn
LMS Transformation
UCLA IT Services
General Resources
Observing facilities
Infrared Laboratory
Financial Services
Machine Shop
Research Store
Astronomy Zimbra Email
Computing & IT Support
Visiting UCLA
UCLA interactive map
Directions and parking
Planetarium directions
UCLA campus shuttle
Local accommodations
Giving to the Astro Division
Copyright ©
UCLA Division of Astronomy & Astrophysics, 475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440 | A
Colorlib
template.