UCLA Astronomy Division
Astrophysics Colloquium
Virtual Colloquium Meetings are held via Zoom
Astrophysics Colloquium schedule
Wednesdays, 3:30-4:30 pm
The Astronomy Colloquia Meetings are held in the P&A building, room 1-434.  Zoom information sent in email.
Winter 2024
January 10,2024
AAS meeting, no colloquium
January 17, 2024
Ashley Villar (Center for Astrophysics | Harvard & Smithsonian (CfA))
Time-domain Astrophysics in the Era of Big Data
Abstract:
The eruptions, collisions and explosions of stars drive the universe’s chemical and dynamical evolution. The upcoming Legacy Survey of Space and Time will drastically increase the discovery rate of these transient phenomena, bringing time-domain astrophysics into the realm of “big data.” With this transition comes the important question: how do we classify transient events and separate the interesting “needles” from the “haystack” of objects? In this talk, I will discuss efforts to discover and classify unexpected phenomena using semi-supervised machine learning techniques. I will highlight the interplay between data-informed physics and physics-informed machine learning required to best understand the future LSST dataset of extragalactic transients.
January 24, 2024
Lieke van Son (Center for Astrophysics | Harvard & Smithsonian (CfA))
The first pieces of the gravitational-wave progenitor population puzzle
Abstract:
As the gravitational-wave event catalog has grown from O(10) to O(100), the field of gravitational-wave astronomy has been rapidly unfolding. We are moving from a phase of initial discovery into an era of population studies. The hope is that these observations help place new constraints on the otherwise elusive lives and deaths of massive stars throughout cosmic history. I will discuss how the first pieces of the gravitational-wave progenitor population puzzle have helped us so far to form a picture of their massive stellar ancestors. Additionally, I will touch upon some of the hopes but also pitfalls of population studies and discuss why the coming decades will be particularly exciting.
February 14, 2024
Re'em Sari (Racah Institute of Physics, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem)
Stellar Processes Around Supermassive Black Holes in Galactic Centers.
Most galaxies contain a super massive black hole at their centers, with masses of millions to billions times that of our sun. This gigantic mass reshapes the orbits of stars and stellar mass black holes around it. We discuss the processes which determine the stellar distribution around supermassive black holes, and derive their statistical equilibrium state. We show how these relate to extreme events, observable from our own galactic center as well as other galactic centers in the universe. These include gravitational waves in the LISA band, tidal disruption of stars, ejection of hypervelocity stars, stable mass transfer onto the supermassive black hole and mysterious pulses of x-rays known as Quasi Periodic Eruptions.
February 21, 2024
Maura McLaughlin (West Virginia University)
Pulsar Timing Arrays: A New Window on the Gravitational Wave Universe
Abstract:
Millisecond pulsars are rapidly rotating neutron stars with phenomenal rotational stability. Pulsar timing arrays world-wide monitor over 100 of these cosmic clocks in order to search for perturbations due to gravitational waves at nanohertz frequencies. The tell-tale sign of a stochastic background of gravitational waves in pulsar timing data is the presence of quadrupolar spatial correlations. Recently, and for the first time ever, pulsar timing array collaborations have found evidence of these spatial correlations in multiple independent pulsar datasets.  The signal is consistent with that expected from an ensemble of supermassive black hole binaries, but could also be attributable to more exotic sources, such as cosmic strings or early universe inflation. I will describe these experiments and the most recent results, in particular highlighting those from the NANOGrav collaboration, and will discuss the increases in sensitivity expected from the combination of data observed with new and existing telescopes across the globe.
February 28, 2024
Shep Doeleman (Center for Astrophysics | Harvard & Smithsonian (CfA))
The next-generation Event Horizon Telescope: from Still Images to Video
Abstract:
The next-generation Event Horizon Telescope (ngEHT) is a transformative upgrade to the EHT that will realize black hole “cinema”: real-time and time-lapse movies of supermassive black holes on event horizon scales. These movies will resolve complex structure and dynamics on Schwarzschild radius dimensions, bringing into focus not just the persistent strong-field gravity features predicted by General Relativity (GR), but details of active accretion and relativistic jet launching that drive large scale structure in the Universe. This effort builds upon recent results by the Event Horizon Telescope (EHT): the first image of M87’s supermassive black hole and its magnetic field structure, as well as resolved images of SgrA*, the central black hole at the heart of the Milky Way. These images are scientifically rich, and show that evolution of the EHT to a more capable array can address even deeper questions across physics and astronomy. The central concept behind the ngEHT is that the addition of modest-diameter dishes at new geographic locations and multi-color observations over a range of frequencies will enable the next revolution in horizon-resolved black hole studies.  This talk will cover the ngEHT technical plans and scientific goals.
March 6, 2024
Fabio Pacucci (Center for Astrophysics | Harvard & Smithsonian (CfA))
Searching for Black Holes From the Nearby to the Faraway Universe
Abstract:
I will provide an overview of our quest to explore undetected populations of black holes, proceeding from the nearby to the faraway Universe. First, I will unveil a new multiwavelength observational campaign leading to discovering the second closest supermassive black hole in the Milky Way satellite Leo I. I will then describe the properties of intermediate-mass black holes potentially wandering in local galaxies, including in the Milky Way. Moving higher in the redshift ladder, I will detail the detection of the farthest lensed quasar to date and investigate why we may be missing a significant fraction of this population. Furthermore, based on JWST data of galaxies hosting black holes at z>4, I will present a statistical analysis that reveals a high-z M_bh-M_star relation that deviates significantly from the local relation. Black holes are overmassive by 10-100 times compared to their low-z counterparts; this fact is not due to a selection effect. I will present a simple model to explain these observations and discuss their significance for black hole seeds. I will then conclude with the observational properties of the first population of black holes, formed at z ~ 20-30, and how we may soon detect them directly.
March 13, 2024
Jorge G. Moreno Soto (Pomona College)
The intriguing lives of galaxies lacking dark matter
Abstract:
The standard cold dark matter plus cosmological constant model predicts that galaxies form within dark-matter haloes, and that low-mass galaxies are more dark-matter dominated than massive ones. The unexpected discovery of two low-mass galaxies lacking dark matter immediately provoked concerns about the standard cosmology and ignited explorations of alternatives, including self-interacting dark matter and modified gravity. Apprehension grew after several cosmological simulations using the conventional model failed to form adequate numerical analogues with comparable internal characteristics (stellar masses, sizes, velocity dispersions and Sérsic indices). Here we show that the standard paradigm naturally produces galaxies lacking dark matter with internal characteristics in agreement with observations. Using a state-of-the-art cosmological simulation and a meticulous galaxy-identification technique, we find that extreme close encounters with massive neighbours can be responsible for this. Moreover, these encounters occur when the satellite is still gas-rich, suggesting that gas-rich interactions may explain the peculiar globular cluster populations in these galaxies. We predict that ∼30% of massive central galaxies (with at least 10e11 solar masses in stars) harbour at least one dark-matter-deficient satellite (with 10e8 -10e9 solar masses in stars). This distinctive class of galaxies provides an additional layer in understanding how tidal stripping and star formation triggering unfolds under these extreme conditions. Future observations surveying galaxies in the aforementioned regime will provide a crucial test of this scenario.
Spring 2024
April 3, 2024
TBD
April 6, 2024
Suvi Gezari (Space Telescope Science Institute)
Searching for the Tidal Disruption of Stars Across the Black Hole Mass Function over Cosmic Time
Abstract:
The tidal disruption of a star that wanders too close to a central black hole is a unique probe of quiescent supermassive black holes lurking in the nuclei of galaxies.  Over the last 5 years, we have demonstrated the ability to discover and spectroscopically classify large samples of tidal disruption events (TDEs) in the optical from the Zwicky Transient Facility (ZTF) Northern Sky Survey, with systematic high-energy follow-up with Swift and XMM-Newton.  One of the most exciting applications of TDEs is the ability to probe intermediate mass black holes (IMBHs) that are expected to reside in dwarf galaxies, with a black hole occupation fraction that depends on the nature of primordial seed black holes in the early Universe.  One novel way to probe IMBHs is to catch them in the act of tidally disrupting and accreting a white dwarf.  White dwarfs (WDs) are so dense, that they can only be ripped apart outside the event horizon around an IMBH sized black hole.  Furthermore, there is a theoretical prediction for a radioactively powered thermonuclear explosion at the time of maximum compression of the star as it passes through pericenter, that could be strong enough to ignite thermonuclear runaway, and a peculiar Type Ia like explosion.  I will present our strategy for searching for TDEs across the black hole mass function over cosmic time in the next 5 years, by extending our sensitivity to TDEs to lower central black hole masses and higher redshifts, by exploiting the discovery power of the next generation of time domain surveys, including Rubin, Roman, ULTRASAT, and UVEX.
April 17, 2024
Kate Whitaker (University of Massachusetts)
Unveiling the Epoch of Quenching
Abstract:
When the Universe was merely a few billion years old, about half of massive galaxies had already formed the bulk of their stars and 
    new star formation plummeted.  New observations from the James Webb 
    Space Telescope are now pushing the existence of these ‘red and dead’ 
    (quiescent) galaxies to uncomfortably high redshifts.  How these massive 
    galaxies form so rapidly and quench at such early times remains a 
    puzzle.  Their dark matter halos should contain large gas reservoirs 
    that should cool efficiently, sustaining star formation over long 
    periods.  In this talk, I will review the recent innovative techniques 
    developed to probe the physical properties of early quiescent galaxies, 
    and the key observations constraining their formation histories.  I will 
    present promising paths forward towards solving this puzzle that 
    leverage strong gravitational lensing and the capabilities of the James 
    Webb Space Telescope and ALMA.
April 24, 2024
TBD
May 1, 2024
Erin Kara (Massachusetts Institute of Technology)
May 8, 2024
Jason Rhodes (JPL Nasa)
Mapping the Dark Universe with Euclid
Abstract:
After 2 decades of preparation, the European Space Agency’s Euclid space telescope was launched on July 1, 2023.  Euclid’s primary goal is to study the dark universe and help us better understand the enigmatic dark matter and dark energy that make up the bulk of the universe. I will talk about my personal journey in bringing Euclid to fruition, give the details of the Euclid telescope and instruments that make it so powerful as a dark energy probe, and talk about the science (cosmology and other) that will be enabled by Euclid’s deep (50 square degrees) and wide (15,000 square degrees) sky surveys.
May 15, 2024
TBD
May 22, 2024
TBD
May 29, 2024
TBD
June 5, 2024
TBD
Astrophysics Colloquium archived talks
Announcements
Open academic positions
Annual reports and newsletters
UCLA Newsroom
UCLA policies on sexual harassment & violence
Diversity @ UCLA
Academic Resources
Academic calendar
Schedule of classes
MyUCLA
BruinLearn
LMS Transformation
UCLA IT Services
General Resources
Observing facilities
Infrared Laboratory
Financial Services
Machine Shop
Research Store
Astronomy Zimbra Email
Computing & IT Support
Visiting UCLA
UCLA interactive map
Directions and parking
Planetarium directions
UCLA campus shuttle
Local accommodations
Giving to the Astro Division
Copyright ©
UCLA Division of Astronomy & Astrophysics, 475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440 | A
Colorlib
template.