UCLA Astronomy Division
Diversity Resources
Diversity Presentations
The UCLA Division of Astronomy and Astrophysics is committed to promoting and fostering an inclusive environment to 
            serve our diverse community of learners. This website provides details regarding past and upcoming workshops, and a list 
            of further resources.
If you have questions, suggestions or would like to report something
please contact us
.
The UCLA Division of Astronomy and Astrophysics is committed to promoting and fostering an inclusive environment 
            to serve our diverse community of learners.  We are dedicated to supporting and engaging faculty and students from a 
            broad array of backgrounds and experiences to tackle some of the biggest questions in physics and astronomy. The 
            Department strives for an environment of respect for all its members, who share the common purpose of the study of 
            physics and astronomy.
The UCLA Physics & Astronomy Department, and the Division of Astronomy and Astrophysics, in accordance with the 
            policy of the University of California, is deeply committed to promoting and fostering an inclusive community 
            dedicated to the advancement of knowledge and creativity. We strive to maintain an environment in which all 
            members of our department can work and learn together in an atmosphere free of sexual harassment, exploitation, 
            or intimidation. Please see the University of California policy on Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment 
            here:
https://equity.ucla.edu/programs-resources/policy/#svsh
.
This website provides details regarding past and upcoming workshops, and a list of further resources.
2023 Diversity Presentations
Tuesday, October 3, 2023, 1pm
Dr. Jia Liu, Director (Center for Data-Driven Discovery), Associate Professor (University of Tokyo)
Impact of COVID-19 on publishing in astronomy in the initial two years
Abstract: Back in 2020, my life was heavily affected by the COVID-19 pandemic as a new mother and an early career scientist –– lost childcare, dropped productivity, disconnection from colleagues, and a tough job market. While rebuilding my research and life routines in the next 2 years, I couldn’t stop wondering: how were others in my field affected by the pandemic –– am I alone? Together with Vanessa Böhm, then  a postdoctoral fellow at UC Berkeley and a fellow computational cosmologist, we set off to answer this question using public data from ADS. We studied the history of publishing rates in astronomy by gender and country, and the impact of the pandemic on those rates. In this informal talk, I will present our key findings. I also hope to connect with the audience and understand the individual journeys behind the statistics we saw. The detailed analysis and results can be found in this article:
https://www.nature.com/articles/s41550-022-01830-9
.
Tuesday, June 6, 2023, 1pm
Dr. Christopher Blaszczak-Boxe, Associate Professor (Howard University)
Title: "Sense of Belonging, As a Vital Ingredient for STEM Engagement"
Abstract: "This talk will highlight the pivotal experiences that shaped Dr. B’s science identity and that created a communal space for me to not only feel welcomed but, more importantly, a sense of belonging in the global STEM arena. Motivating factors will be discussed regarding the need for additional perspectives in STEM disciplines, occupations, and the research environment. Within this context, Dr. B will accentuate two ongoing planetary science projects: 1) The feasibility of landing safely on ice bodies, such as Enceladus, with respect to ice strength parameters (e.g., density, porosity, tensile strength); and 2) a collaborative project, spearheaded by Kayla Smith, that is quantifying the impact of the impact of Novel H 2 O(v) Absorption Cross-Sections on the Present Martian Atmosphere via Caltech-JPL’s 1D Photochemical Model. Kayla Smith is an exemplar of the positive impact and success that can be fostered through matrices that create and sustain a sense of belonging for the diverse spectrum of academic stakeholders."
Tuesday, May 2nd, 2023 1pm
Josh Samani will present a paper about gender bias in teaching evaluations:
https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.2118466120
Wednesday, March 22, 2023, 3:30pm
Alvine, Dalton, and Smadar: imposter syndrome from the point of view of these two articles
Stop Telling Women They Have Imposter Syndrome
and
Unfolding the Myth of Imposter Syndrome
2022 Diversity Presentations
Tuesday, January 25, 2022 1pm
Anna Quider (Assistant Vice President for Federal Relations - NIU)
Title: From Natural Laws to Writing Laws: An Astrophysicist Turned Policymaker
During this talk, attendees will learn about what it means to work in science policy as well as the wide array of opportunities for 
	scientists -- from undergraduates through faculty members -- to gain experience working in science policy. Dr. Anna Quider will discuss 
	her experience as a physicist-turned-policymaker working within the federal government at the U.S. House of Representatives and U.S. 
	Department of State, and external to the federal government as a higher education and science advocate. She will also share advice 
	and insights gained from her experience serving as a selection committee member for the APS Congressional Science Fellowship and AAAS 
	Science and Technology Policy Fellowship.
April 7 2022, 4pm
Sherard Robbins (University of Arizona, Visceral Change), Mentoring Workshop
The Missing Link: Mentorship as The Key to Success
Abstract: This particular workshop will focus on the importance of mentorship for students, staff, and faculty. Using a multicultural 
	lens, this session will explore the ways in which cultural and social identities impact how people connect with one another while providing 
	helpful tips to create space to celebrate our diversity; when done correctly, this will lead to a collectivist approach to growth and 
	development.
April 26, 2022, 1pm
Kartik Sheth (NASA HQ)
Title: Kartik Sheth (NASA HQ)
Abstract: My career has spanned academia, government, non-profits and the White House, I didn't always know what I was going to be 
	doing next and certainly did not always follow a traditional path.  I will describe for the students some of the lessons learned along 
	the way that have served me well in these various careers and describe important lessons that may help them to successful careers.
June 14 2022, 1pm
Chandralekha Singh, (Department of Physics and Astronomy, University of Pittsburgh)
Title: How to enhance physics by making it inclusive
Abstract: Instructors often only focus on content and pedagogical approaches to improve student engagement and learning in physics 
	courses. However, students’ motivational characteristics can also play an important role in their engagement and success in physics. 
	For example, students’ sense of belonging in a STEM class, their self-efficacy, and views about whether intelligence in STEM is “fixed” 
	or “malleable” can affect engagement and learning. These types of concerns can especially impact the learning outcomes of women and 
	racial/ethnic minority students and stereotype threats can exacerbate these issues. I will discuss prior research studies that show 
	how different types of social psychological interventions (e.g., social belonging and growth mindset) have improved the motivation 
	and learning outcomes of all students, especially women and underrepresented minorities in STEM fields. These interventions include 
	providing data to students about how intelligence is malleable and one can become an expert in a discipline by working hard in a 
	deliberate manner, sharing with the students, examples of testimonials of past students from diverse backgrounds, who struggled 
	initially but then succeeded by working hard and using deliberate approaches. We will discuss how these ecological interventions 
	were adapted and implemented in our physics classes. These types of interventions are short, requiring less than one hour of regular 
	class time even though they have the potential to impact student outcomes significantly—especially for women and other underrepresented 
	racial/ethnic minority students in physics classes.
2020-2021 Diversity Presentations
Monday October 18, 2021
Smadar Naoz/Alice Shapley: Jocelyn Bell Burnell movie
Monday October 11, 2021
Sanaea/Tony: How COVID affected women, "reference man", car crash, masks on women/men, working from home, How Science Got Women Wrong, etc
Monday October 4, 2021
Isabel/Liz: Women's experience/women of color @ UCLA and in general - per research area
Monday September 27, 2021
Gabi/Denyz: Why are there still so few women in the sciences?
Monday September 20, 2021
Alice Shapley/Shawn: MIT/AIP and recent updates
Monday August 30, 2021
Kristian: LGBTQ
--
https://www.aps.org/programs/lgbt/upload/LGBTClimateinPhysicsReport.pdf
Monday August 23, 2021, 1-2:30pm
Smadar Naoz, Dalton: History/intersectionality
Tuesday, June 8, 2021, 1-2:30pm
Bystander Intervention and Building a Culture of Inclusion Workshop
In this discussion we'll learn how to speak up when harassment and microaggressions happen in the workplace, using 
	techniques of bystander intervention (whether you're a bystander or responding directly). Through practical and hands-on small 
	group activities and self-reflection exercises, participants will be able to recognize both subtle and more severe forms of 
	prejudice. We'll practice techniques to enable a culture of accountability, rather than blame, to address inappropriate 
	behavior in the workplace.
Features of the workshop include:
Identifying and understanding what makes a microaggression, and what its harm is
Practicing what to do if participants experience or observe harmful behavior in the workplace by a peer, 
					superior, direct report or any other individuals in the workplace
Tools to cultivate and model a culture of respect and inclusion
This workshop will be led by Audrey Roofeh and Swati Srivastava, experienced workshop facilitators and workplace culture consultants.
Tuesday May 26 2021, 3:30pm
Emily Rice (City University of New York): Science of All Stripes -- Creating an Eclectic Academic Career and Broadening 
	Inclusivity
The landscape of academic science has changed significantly in recent decades and is poised to change even more in the near 
	future. We can leverage these cultural changes to create an environment that is both inclusive to more people and effective in 
	preparing students (science majors and non-majors alike) for a wider variety of careers and more broadly defined success. I’ll 
	share my own path to science, including graduate school at UCLA, and a variety of science projects I have been involved in along 
	the way to becoming tenured faculty at the City University of New York, including: planetarium shows, parody music videos, media 
	appearances, Astronomy on Tap public outreach events, STARtorialist science fashion blog and shop, the AstroCom NYC research 
	mentorship program, and the BDNYC brown dwarf research group. The implicit mission that connects these eclectic projects is to 
	expand support for, participation in, and even the definition of science.
Wednesday May 11 2021, 3:30pm
DiversiTea: Can you trust your own mind?
In this DiversiTea/professional development event we will explore some of the pitfalls set up by our minds and in our work 
	and study place.
Thursday, Nov. 19, 2020 4pm
Sherard Robbins (University of Arizona): topic TBA
Tuesday Dec. 1, 2020, 1-2pm
DiversiTea
Tuesday Oct. 20, 2020 1-2pm
DiversiTea Town Hall
: Aimed at discussing the next step of activities and actions followed our 11 week JC program, 
	presenting the DEI strategic plan etc.
Thursday, Oct. 15, 2020 11am-12pm
Joyce Yen, (University of Washington): De-biasing the evaluation processes
Click here for the Diversity Resources archive
.
UCLA internal resources
UCLA equity, diversity, and inclusion
https://equity.ucla.edu/programs-resources/
https://equity.ucla.edu/programs-resources/campus-resources/
These websites provide information regarding resources for issues such as discrimination prevention, title IX, student affairs programs, and other resources. There are also educational links which have information about implicit bias, stereotype threat, and classroom climate. I think the discrimination prevention team could be a valuable resource because they investigate discrimination claims made by students, staff, or faculty. They also hold training to prevent discrimination and bias.
Anxiety and mental health resources
UCLA OCD Program: (310) 794-7305
UCLA Anxiety Disorders Program: (310) 794-1038
UCLA Trauma Psychiatry Service: (310) 794-1076
UCLA Child and Adolescent Program: (310) 825-0122
UCLA Anxiety Disorders Clinic
https://www.semel.ucla.edu/adc/clinic
This is a possible alternative to using CAPS, which is usually very overbooked and therefore not an option for a lot of students.
CAPS workshops and trainings
http://www.counseling.ucla.edu/Workshops-Traninings
CAPS resources for mental health and common concerns
http://www.counseling.ucla.edu/Resources/Online-Resources-Apps
This link includes resources for apps, including some about anxiety and relaxation techniques.
CAPS list of community resources
http://www.counseling.ucla.edu/Resources/Community-Resources
UCLA Sexual violence prevention and response:
http://www.sexualviolence.ucla.edu/Filing-a-Report
This website outlines all of the options for filing or not filing a report and provides a list of available resources through UCLA and the surrounding community.
SACNAS at UCLA (Society for the advancement of Chicanos and Native Americans)
http://www.sacnasatucla.com/
Women in Physics and Astronomy at UCLA
http://wipa.physics.ucla.edu/
Women in Physical Sciences at UCLA (for undergrads)
http://ugradwomen.pa.ucla.edu/
External resources
Astronomy in Color (In pursuit of social justice, diversity, and excellence in astronomy)
http://astronomyincolor.blogspot.com/
Astronomy Allies
http://www.astronomyallies.com/Astronomy_Allies/Welcome.html
Women in Astronomy blog
http://womeninastronomy.blogspot.com/
AAS Committee for Sexual Orientation and Gender Minorities in Astronomy
https://sgma.aas.org/
AAS Committee for the Status of Minorities in Astronomy
http://csma.aas.org/
Sexual Assault Resources: CARE
http://www.sexualviolence.ucla.edu/Portals/33/Documents/ResourcesandOptions%20Brochure%20June2016.pdf
This lists reporting options, confidential resources, advocacy, and additional resources, as well as explains different forms of sexual violence and harassment.
Announcements
Open academic positions
Annual reports and newsletters
UCLA Newsroom
UCLA policies on sexual harassment & violence
Diversity @ UCLA
Academic Resources
Academic calendar
Schedule of classes
MyUCLA
BruinLearn
LMS Transformation
UCLA IT Services
General Resources
Observing facilities
Infrared Laboratory
Financial Services
Machine Shop
Research Store
Astronomy Zimbra Email
Computing & IT Support
Visiting UCLA
UCLA interactive map
Directions and parking
Planetarium directions
UCLA campus shuttle
Local accommodations
Giving to the Astro Division
Copyright ©
UCLA Division of Astronomy & Astrophysics, 475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440 | A
Colorlib
template.