UCLA Astronomy Division
Giving to the Astro Division
How you can help
There 
				are several ways you can help the Astronomy Division maximize scholarly and scientific opportunities at UCLA.
Graduate/postdoctoral fellowships
help recruit elite young scientific minds to the Department, attracted by 
				financial incentives that alleviate teaching responsibilities (so that students can focus on their research) and the prestige 
				associated with a named fellowship.
Undergraduate scholarships
are awarded to students based on academic merit, financial need, or diversity. 
				Many of the Department’s scholarships give students the opportunity to conduct research or gain lab experience during the year 
				or over the course of the summer – a unique opportunity for undergraduates.
Named endowed chairs for faculty
ensure that the Department can recruit and retain top faculty; these chairs 
				are considered the most highly prized honors among scientists in the academic world. Recruitment and retention are indeed 
				critically hampered by the drop in state funding, and funds for these needs are nearly impossible to augment without private 
				investment.
Discretionary funds
enrich the Division’s scientific community and ensure that the Department has 
				sufficient resources for its most pressing needs, ranging from aiding under-represented groups in science, to making sure 
				UCLA teaching labs are state-of-the-art.
Lab naming
is a targeted way to support individual research groups, and ensure that labs have the most 
				cutting-edge equipment and technology.
Contact Brooke Sanders, Director of Development, at 310-794-9045 or
bsanders@support.ucla.edu
if you have any questions 
				about giving to the Division. We're grateful to all of you who support our teaching and research.
Announcements
Open academic positions
Annual reports and newsletters
UCLA Newsroom
UCLA policies on sexual harassment & violence
Diversity @ UCLA
Academic Resources
Academic calendar
Schedule of classes
MyUCLA
BruinLearn
LMS Transformation
UCLA IT Services
General Resources
Observing facilities
Infrared Laboratory
Financial Services
Machine Shop
Research Store
Astronomy Zimbra Email
Computing & IT Support
Visiting UCLA
UCLA interactive map
Directions and parking
Planetarium directions
UCLA campus shuttle
Local accommodations
Giving to the Astro Division
Copyright ©
UCLA Division of Astronomy & Astrophysics, 475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440 | A
Colorlib
template.