UCLA Astronomy Division
Graduate Studies
Graduate resources
Admission application
Financial support
Tuition and fees
Guidelines for the Second Year Comprehensive Exam
FAQs about the graduate program
Guide for accepted students
Incoming graduate students guide
Graduate Studies
The members of the Astronomy and Astrophysics Division all carry out active research programs garnering widespread 
            international recognition in observation, theory, and instrumentation. Doctoral students participate in a variety of 
            research projects, which frequently incorporate observations with the world's largest ground-based telescopes such 
            as the 10-meter Keck telescopes in Hawaii, with orbiting observatories such as the Hubble, Chandra, Spitzer, and 
            GALEX, and with numerous ground-based facilities (e.g. VLA, CTIO, KPNO, Subaru, GEMINI).
Graduate students have received funding through nationally competitive fellowships such as the NASA Graduate 
            Student Researcher Program and the NSF Graduate Research Fellowship Program, and UC-based awards such as the Eugene 
            V. Cota-Robles, the Chancellor's, and the Dissertation-Year Fellowships. Our Ph.D recipients have obtained prestigious 
            post-doctoral fellowships such as the National Research Council, Hubble, NSF, Caltech Millikan, and Princeton Russell. 
            UCLA also operates one of the premier solar observatories at Mt. Wilson and is heavily involved in the space-based 
            solar mission Soho. In addition many students are also involved with the construction of state-of-the-art instrumentation.
The Division of Astronomy and Astrophysics is part of the Physics and Astronomy Department, but admits graduate 
            students in a separate pool and administers its own Ph.D. program. Prospective graduate students should apply early 
            to the Graduate Division of Admissions at UCLA. The deadline for applications for domestic and foreign students is 
            December 15 for the Fall quarter of the next year. For the most up-to-date information regarding our admissions 
            requirements, please 
            visit:
https://www.pa.ucla.edu/graduate-admissions.html
.
Announcements
Open academic positions
Annual reports and newsletters
UCLA Newsroom
UCLA policies on sexual harassment & violence
Diversity @ UCLA
Academic Resources
Academic calendar
Schedule of classes
MyUCLA
BruinLearn
LMS Transformation
UCLA IT Services
General Resources
Observing facilities
Infrared Laboratory
Financial Services
Machine Shop
Research Store
Astronomy Zimbra Email
Computing & IT Support
Visiting UCLA
UCLA interactive map
Directions and parking
Planetarium directions
UCLA campus shuttle
Local accommodations
Giving to the Astro Division
Copyright ©
UCLA Division of Astronomy & Astrophysics, 475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440 | A
Colorlib
template.