UCLA Astronomy Division
Tuesday Lunch Talk
2023 Schedule
03/07: Sean Linden
30/28: Graham Smith
04/04: Keir Rogers
04/11: Devon Powell
05/02: Josh Samani - running DiversiTea
05/09: Sihao Cheng
05/23: Virginia L Trimble
06/06: Chris Boxe and Kayla Smith
Archives: Fall 2022 Schedule
10/4: Yongda Zhu
10/11: Kendall Sullivan
10/18: Cicero Lu
10/25: Casey Lam
11/1: Sofia Rojas
11/8: Matthew Gent
11/15: Hareesh Bhaskar
11/22: Surajit Kalita
11/29: Keerthi Vasan
12/6:
Archives: Fall 2020 Schedule
Astrophysics Tuesday Lunch Talks will be held virtually via ZOOM for Fall 2020.
Coordinators: Anna Ciurlo, Matt Hosek, Guido Roberts-Borsani
October 13 at 1:00 PM Pacific time
Vince Estrada-Carpenter, Texas A&M
Title: Stellar Populations and Formation Histories of Massive Galaxies Derived from Deep Hubble Space Telescope Grism Data
Abstract: Understanding the correlations between mass, morphology, stellar populations, and formation history in galaxies is 
            difficult, primarily due to the uncertainties in galaxy star-formation histories. Star-formation histories are better constrained 
            for higher redshift galaxies, observed closer to their formation and quenching epochs. These properties in high redshift galaxies 
            can be difficult to do from ground-based telescopes, as they are subject to higher backgrounds and a high density of telluric 
            (night-sky) emission lines. The HST/WFC3 grism grants us access to (low-resolution) rest frame optical spectrum for galaxies 
            at ~ 1 < z < 2. The age and metallicity features present at these wavelengths, along with the sample sizes provided by grism 
            surveys, allow us to better constrain stellar populations and star-formation histories. In my talk, I will discuss research using 
            a forward modeling technique to fit deep HST grism data from the CLEAR (CANDELS Lyα Emission at Reionization) survey. Work which 
            includes studying the mass - stellar metallicity relationship, where we find that massive quiescent galaxies up to a redshift 
            of ~ 1.8 have ~ solar stellar metallicities. As well as a study on the relationship between morphology and formation redshift 
            (when the galaxy formed ~ 50% of their mass) using “non-parametric” star-formation histories, where we find that quiescent 
            galaxies with the highest stellar-mass surface density, log(Σ1) > 10.25, show a minimum formation redshift.
October 6 at 1:00 PM Pacific time
Greg Gilbert, The University of Chicago
Title: The Architectures and Dynamics of Kepler’s Multiplanet Systems
Abstract: Studying the present day architectures and dynamics of high-multiplicity (N ≥ 3) exoplanetary systems provides a 
            unique avenue for probing the astrophysics of planet formation and for constraining exoplanet demographics. Here, I present a 
            new framework for characterizing the arrangements of masses, periods, and mutual inclinations within such systems. I demonstrate 
            that Kepler’s high multiplicity systems can be explained if most systems belong to a single intrinsic population, with a subset 
            of systems hosting additional, undetected planets. I further demonstrate that planets within a system tend to be evenly spaced 
            in log-period and roughly the same size, and that these trends are astrophysical in nature and not an artifact of observational 
            biases. Conclusions regarding planetary inclinations and eccentricities are less clear and require improved transit lightcurve 
            fits to allow for robust inferences. However, accurate transit modeling is confounded by both instrumental and asteroseismic 
            noise, as well as by unresolved transit timing variations (TTVs) and transit duration variations (TDVs) which arise from 
            gravitational interactions between neighboring planets. To remedy this problem, I am currently reprocessing all (~3300) 
            Kepler lightcurves for stars known to host planet candidates. I employ all available short cadence data, using a technique 
            that simultaneously models noise with a Gaussian Process (GP) regression and accounts for both TTVs and TDVs with an optimally 
            flexible parametric model. These timing measurements can be inverted using dynamical models to produce a large statistical 
            sample of planetary masses, filling out the mass-radius diagram. This project will yield the highest-fidelity measurements 
            of TTVs and TDVs produced to date, as well as dramatically improved constraints on planetary inclinations and eccentricities. 
            In the near future, I will extend these methods to every planetary candidate observed by Kepler, K2, and TESS, with an expected 
            yield of nearly 100 previously undetected TTVs/TDVs.
September 29 at 1:00 PM Pacific time
Luke Bouma, Princeton
Title: Two Young Transiting Exoplanets: One Was, One Was Not
Abstract: Over the first 100 million years of their lives, planetary systems undergo major changes. Rocky planetesimals collide. 
          Atmospheres are accreted and lost. Dynamical interactions shape and tilt planetary orbits. After summarizing ongoing observational 
          efforts aimed at discovering young exoplanets, I will motivate and discuss two specific questions. First: what is the youngest hot 
          Jupiter that exists?  I will present PTFO 8-8695b, a long-standing 10 Myr old candidate hot Jupiter that is probably a rare class 
          of variable star.  Combined with other recent work, the story of PTFO 8-8695b suggests that approximately zero hot Jupiters 
          younger than 100 Myr have been securely identified.  The second question is: what can observations teach us about how close-in 
          Neptunian-mass planets form and evolve?  This topic will be explored through the discovery and validation of a 40 Myr old 
          Saturn-sized planet, TOI 837b. The planet's host star is bright enough to enable measurements of the stellar obliquity, the 
          planet's mass, and potentially the planet's atmospheric mass loss.  These avenues of characterization, broadly applied to the 
          young planets being discovered with TESS and K2, will likely improve our understanding of the processes that produce the observed 
          exoplanet population.
Archives: Winter 2020 Schedule
2/4: Xuheng Ding, UCLA
2/11: Jason Wang, Caltech
2/18: Kristen Larson, Caltech/IPAC
2/25: Ylva Goetberg, Carnegie
3/3: Evan Bauer, UCSB
Announcements
Open academic positions
Annual reports and newsletters
UCLA Newsroom
UCLA policies on sexual harassment & violence
Diversity @ UCLA
Academic Resources
Academic calendar
Schedule of classes
MyUCLA
BruinLearn
LMS Transformation
UCLA IT Services
General Resources
Observing facilities
Infrared Laboratory
Financial Services
Machine Shop
Research Store
Astronomy Zimbra Email
Computing & IT Support
Visiting UCLA
UCLA interactive map
Directions and parking
Planetarium directions
UCLA campus shuttle
Local accommodations
Giving to the Astro Division
Copyright ©
UCLA Division of Astronomy & Astrophysics, 475 Portola Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1547
310-825-3440 | A
Colorlib
template.