EMT: Emergency Medical Technician | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
[ Login / Register ]
0  items in cart
Toggle navigation
EMT: Emergency Medical Technician
96% NREMT First Time Pass Rates
COVID UPDATE
EMT Program
|
Prerequisites
|
Required Materials
|
Finances & Scholarships
|
FAQs
Masks:
UCLA recommends well-fitting masks in all facilities. Outdoor masking is optional for all.
COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement:
The University of California requires all students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, including a booster dose to access University facilities and programs. Students who cannot provide proof of COVID-19 vaccination may experience delays in clinical or field placement, extended completion times and the inability to meet course requirements for certification. Limited allowance for medical and religious exemption is reviewed with supporting documentation.
Students are asked to only attend class if they are healthy and will complete a UCLA Health Symptom Survey for each day they are on-site.
Start Your Healthcare Career with LA’s Top EMT Program
Expert UCLA program faculty teach our EMT courses in Westwood and El Segundo to prepare students for EMT certification. Students will learn how to provide emergency medical assistance to citizens suffering medical illnesses or traumatic injuries.
Free Info Session – February 29
Join an online information session with our EMT faculty to determine which EMT program is right for you!
RSVP TODAY
Accelerated EMT Program:
This four-week EMT course is a great offering for students looking to start treating patients quickly. This class format has provided success to thousands of EMTs.
Duration:
4 weeks
Lectures & Skills Labs:
Mon, Tue, Thu, Fri 8AM-5PM
Online EMT Program:
This ten-week course is a great offering for students looking for EMT training with a flexible schedule. This class format includes online lectures, self-paced interactive assignments, and on-site skills labs.
Duration:
10 Weeks
Lectures:
Mon & Wed. 7PM-9PM
Skills Labs - choose one:
• Sat 8AM-6PM
• Sun 8AM-6PM
• Tues & Thurs 6PM-10PM
Students must attend at least one online lecture at the scheduled time per week. All online lectures are all recorded. There are two options for skills labs and you must attend the selected lab for the duration of the hybrid course.
Enroll Today
Accelerated Classroom Courses
Course fee: $1,595
Required Materials: $349.46
CLASSES HERE
Online Course + Skills Sessions
Course fee: $1,595
Required Materials: $349.46
CLASSES HERE
Non-Refundable Fee: $100
What’s the difference between an EMT and a Paramedic?
Curious about launching your career in Emergency Medical Services with the nation's top EMT program? Learn about the differences between these two levels of professional certification, and how you can get started.
THE DIFFERENCE BETWEEN AN EMT AND A PARAMEDIC
EMT Prep
With an EMT level review of various topics, the EMT Prep class will provide you with insights and knowledge into the EMS field.
LEARN MORE
Frequently Asked Questions
Find answers to your questions regarding enrollment, prerequisites, attendance, course fees, and more.
LEARN MORE
Payment Plans
You can enroll in a payment plan for eligible courses and secure your seat with a down payment.
LEARN MORE
Course Prerequisites
Learn about the requirements you must meet to participate in our EMT program.
LEARN MORE
Required Materials
You will need a few additional items to complete the course. Learn more here.
LEARN MORE
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms