Fire Department & Law Enforcement Continuing Education & Quality Improvement | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
[ Login / Register ]
0  items in cart
Toggle navigation
Fire Department & Law Enforcement Continuing Education & Quality Improvement
For over 20 years, UCLA Nurse Educators have delivered customized, high-quality, and department-specific continuing education and quality improvement services to fire departments and law enforcement agencies.  Nurse and Paramedic Educators operate within the chain of command structure and partner with departments to support the delivery of high quality emergency services.  Our services are customized but typically include:
Dynamic, hands-on monthly continuing education that utilizes a student-centered learning model that goes well beyond the traditional lecture-based, stand-and-deliver teaching format.
Collaboration with EMS leadership to sustain best practices within your department.
Continuing education to include skills practice, remediation and verification, which exceeds recertification/licensing requirements for EMTs and Paramedics.
Comprehensive quality improvement plan, including the development and tracking of performance indicators and a ride-along program, to sustain high quality care and meet regulatory requirements.
Additional services as needed:
Support the department's infection control program and serve as the Designated Infection Control Officer (DICO).
Oversight, coordination, training and re-training of EMT– Defibrillation programs.
Community-based education including hand-only CPR, Stop-the-Bleed, First Aid, Public Access AED.
Emergency Medical Dispatch quality improvement and pre-arrival instructions.
We work as a team of Educators and will find you an Educator that fits your organization’s needs.  We have an outstanding record of meeting regulatory audit requirements.  We are well-respected by the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services EMS Agency and other LA County Prehospital Colleagues.
Experience in the field
The Center for Prehospital Care has years of experience delivering primary and refresher education for Paramedics and EMTs with nationally leading outcomes.  Educators are proud to be immersed in the middle of the primary Paramedic and EMT programs, along with our association with the UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine.  Our programs are managed by a cohesive group of physicians, nurses, paramedics, and EMTs in key leadership positions who contribute to best practices, and participate with others to create knowledge and evidence that help guide the practice of prehospital medicine.
Nurse and Paramedic Educators
Nurse and Paramedic Educators are committed EMS and patient care advocates that are dedicated to their department and possess the following qualifications:
RN or PM in State of California, with a minimum of 5 years clinical experience working in the emergency department
Mobile Intensive Care Nurse (MICN)
NAEMSE, DOT or Firefighter 1A/1B Instructor Certification
BLS Provider & Instructor
ACLS, PALS, and PHTLS Provider & Instructor
More information
For more information, please contact Carmina Lu, Center Administrator, at
carminalu@mednet.ucla.edu
.
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms