Giving to the Center | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
[ Login / Register ]
0  items in cart
Toggle navigation
Giving to the Center
Graduates of our programs serve in critical roles throughout the healthcare system, primarily in first-response roles: EMTs and paramedics. In clinical settings, we educate phlebotomists for their licensing exams, and nurses and doctors working in emergency departments.
Right now, even in this time of social distancing,
our programs are continuing to graduate these critical healthcare providers
. Our faculty and staff are working tirelessly to move programs online and create new curricula to help bring these desperately needed graduates into the healthcare workforce.
The Center for Prehospital Care is fully self-supporting through our students' course fees, and donations. If you would like to contribute, you can use the link below to donate to the Sponsor A Hero campaign, which goes directly to support our Center and students.
Sponsor a Hero: donate now
If you would like to direct a gift to a specific program area or need, please contact us at
cpc@mednet.ucla.edu
. Areas of critical need right now include:
Curriculum development & innovations:
Transforming curricula traditionally delivered in person to meaningful learning experiences online.
Medical teaching equipment:
As part of our COVID-19 response, we are increasingly making equipment available for students to train with at home.
Technology funds:
Moving our educational activities online is incurring added costs for equipment and distance education services.
Texts & teaching materials:
Online education still requires textbooks, or online materials - some of which are more expensive than their printed counterparts.
Operating support:
With decreased enrollments, your gift can help support the fixed operating costs of the Center.
Student scholarship:
If you would like your gift to sponsor the tuition of a specific individual, you may name them in the "in memory of" box.
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms