Prehospital Care Research Forum | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
Welcome [Student Login / Register]
0 Cart items
Toggle navigation
Prehospital Care Research Forum
PCRF Home
Education & Podcasts
Host a Workshop
Resources
Articles
External Resources
Research 101 Online Course
Guide to Evidence Based Practice
IRB Guide
Search PCRF Abstracts
Reviewer Login
About
Mission
Committees & Members
Partners
How to Join
Contact PCRF
2024 Call for Abstracts
Submissions are now open for 2024 abstracts.
Abstracts are due June 30, 2024.
2024 Call for Abstracts
2024 Call for Abstracts!
Submissions are now open for 2024 abstracts. The best clinical research for 2024 will receive $500 USD cash award and a travel grant of up to $,2000 USD to present your research at an over-seas international conference.
Call for Abstracts
PCRF/WEINMANN Emergency
Utah Ventilation Research Summit
February 8-10 | Applications Due November 1, 2023
The PCRF/WEINMANN Emergency Utah Ventilation Research Summit is ideal for front-line clinicians and clinical leaders with innate curiosity and an itch to launch their next (or first!) EMS research project. The Research Summit matches participants with clinical mentors, methodologists, and statisticians to accelerate EMS research. This workshop is focused on concepts around breathing and ventilation.
Learn the basics of EMS research, explore required data elements, work with a clinical mentor and statistician, start to develop a research abstract for submission, and more.
Apply Now
3-Day PCRF/ESO Research Workshop: Jump-start Your EMS Research
May 21 - 23 | Applications Due December 31, 2023
The ESO/PCRF Research Forum is ideal for front-line clinicians and clinical leaders with innate curiosity and an itch to launch their next (or first!) EMS research project. The Forum matches participants with clinical mentors, methodologists, and statisticians to accelerate EMS research.
Learn the basics of EMS research, explore required data elements, work with a clinical mentor and statistician, start to develop a research abstract for submission, and more.
Apply Now
Upcoming Journal Club Webinars and Podcasts!
Next Journal Club Clinical Webinar - February 12, 2024
To Treat or Not to Treat: Atrial Fibrillation
While most cardiac dysrhythmias fit nicely into a treatment algorithm, atrial fibrillation stands out as lacking clear-cut treatment guidelines. Concerns over patient outcome, and further cardiac damage leave many agencies favoring rapid transport and limited treatment.
Join this month's PCRF Journal Club to discuss a landmark paper that evaluates treating atrial fibrillation in the prehospital setting.
Register now!
Next Journal Club Education Webinar - February 23, 2024
The ABCs: More Than a Mnemonic
Checklists have become a part of every EMS provider’s day. We use them to check in our ambulances, ensure we have all our equipment, and help us prepare for low-frequency skills. However, can a checklist help us perform better in the field?
Join this month’s Education Journal Club as we review a study that evaluated if using an easy-to-remember checklist can improve cardiac arrest management.
Register now!
Join us for Two Live Monthly Webinars
WEBINAR DETAILS & ARCHIVES
PCRF Journal Club:
Clinical Research
Second Monday, noon CST
Next date: March 11, 2024
Register Now
PCRF Journal Club:
Education Research
Fourth Friday, noon CST
Next date: February 23, 2024
Register Now
Webinar
Archives
:
2023 Abstracts Published
The Prehospital Care Research Forum (PCRF) at UCLA is pleased to present 37 abstracts from the International Scientific EMS Symposium held in September 2023 during the EMS World EXPO conference in New Orleans. Submissions scored by experts in prehospital care.
2023 Abstracts
International Scientific Symposium 2022 - Orlando
October 10, 2022 to October 14, 2022
The International Scientific EMS Symposium was held in October 2022 during the EMS World EXPO conference in Orlando. All submissions were reviewed and scored by experts in prehospital care, education, and research. Invited speakers presented and discussed the best research submitted to the Prehospital Care Research Forum this year. All abstracts are published and available.
2022 Agenda
2022 Abstracts
Did you miss it?
International Research Conference 2021: Global Developments in EMS Research
November 30, 2021 & December 1, 2021
Panels and invited speakers presented and discussed more than 40 original research projects spanning topics of worldwide interest including current diseases, ethics, technology, and cultural competence in paramedicine. All 42 PCRF abstracts are now published and available at EMS World.
2021 Agenda
2021 Abstracts
Did you miss it?
International Scientific Symposium 2020 - Virtual
November 20, 2020
On November 20, 2020, we took the International Scientific Symposium virtual for the year, with a day dedicated to the current state of EMS research, and the best research submitted to the Prehospital Care Research Forum this year.
2020 Agenda
2020 Abstracts
Find PCRFatUCLA on
Facebook
and
Twitter
.
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms