Licensed Phlebotomist Course | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
[ Login / Register ]
0  items in cart
Toggle navigation
Licensed Phlebotomist Course
99% Board Exam First-Time Pass Rate
COVID UPDATE
Licensed Phlebotomist
|
Schedule
|
Finances
|
Eligibility
|
Materials
|
FAQs
Masks:
UCLA recommends well-fitting masks in all facilities. Outdoor masking is optional for all.
COVID-19 Vaccination Requirement:
The University of California requires all students to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, including a booster dose to access University facilities and programs. Students who cannot provide proof of COVID-19 vaccination may experience delays in clinical or field placement, extended completion times and the inability to meet course requirements for certification. Limited allowance for medical and religious exemption is reviewed with supporting documentation.
Students are asked to only attend class if they are healthy and will complete a UCLA Health Symptom Survey for each day they are on-site.
Start Your Medical Career with UCLA’s Phlebotomy Course
Becoming a phlebotomist is a great way to start your career in healthcare, build experience and learn skills to work in a variety of healthcare settings.
LEARN MORE
Free Info Session – February 20 @ 6:30 PM
Join an online information session with our Phlebotomy faculty to determine if our Phlebotomy program is right for you!
RSVP TODAY
Phlebotomy Course Format:
The course consists of in person didactic (lectures), skills lab instruction and clinical rotations. Didactic instruction takes place over six weeks. Clinical rotations will begin after passing the Skills Practice and Skills Final Exam usually after Week 5 and may continue as long as two months depending on your availability and availability of shifts.
Duration: 6 weeks lecture plus clinical
Lectures:
Tu & Th 6PM-10PM
Skills lab:
Sat or Sun 8AM-6PM
Available clinical shifts may include day and weekend shifts. In the clinical phase, you will be rotated through UCLA hospitals and affiliated community clinics.
Enroll Today
Upcoming Courses
Course fee: $2,275 • Nonrefundable: $200
CLASSES HERE
Required Materials:
The textbook and fees for Complio compliance tracking are not included in the course fee. Please see the Required Materials page for these costs. Phlebotomy students must have access to a stable internet connection and a tablet or laptop computer (Windows or Mac) for testing purposes.
Payment Plans
You can enroll in a payment plan for eligible courses and secure your seat with a down payment.
LEARN MORE
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms