Veteran's Assistance Benefits | UCLA CPC
Skip to main content
[ Login / Register ]
0  items in cart
Toggle navigation
Veteran's Assistance Benefits
Students
Payment Methods
Payment Plan
Refunds & Transfers
Transcripts
Scholarships
Veteran's Assistance Benefits
Educational Accommodations
College Credit & CEUs
Our Emergency Medical Technician (EMT) and Paramedic Education courses are approved by the Department of Veterans Affairs (DVA) to certify enrollment for eligible veterans for the GI Bill®.
As a veteran, you must follow and meet the EMT and Paramedic courses' established eligibility, enrollment, and tuition payment requirements. Please note that fee payments for students enrolling in the EMT and Paramedic courses are due prior to the start of the course. The DVA pays eligible veterans their designated rate throughout their enrollment in the course. (For purposes of the VA, the EMT and Paramedic courses are considered clock-hour programs. The VA typically only reimburses students the cost of fees.)
If you have the Post-9/11 GI Bill, you may be able to sign up for a course using our GI Bill Student Enrollment Agreement if the VA will pre-pay your course.
If you are a veteran and are eligible to receive Veterans Benefits, please visit the
DVA web site
or call the DVA at 1-888-442-4551 for questions about eligibility, processing your benefits, and obtaining a Certificate of Eligibility.
Here is what you need to have in hand before setting up your appointment with UCLA Center for Prehospital Care Certifying School Official:
Your current Certificate of Eligibility letter
from the VA.
(You can call them to request one at 888-GI-BILL-1.)
A copy of your DD-214
(Member Copy 4 showing your discharge status).
Unofficial or official transcripts
from any schools you attended
after
high school.
The name and address of the last school
where you used GI Bill (if you have used it before).
If you paid into a “Kicker” program
(i.e., if you paid extra funds into the GI Bill) you should bring that paperwork if you have it.
Paramedic students:
Please refer to your acceptance letter for details on using your Veterans Benefits to pay for your course. The letter will tell you when and where to send your documentation.
For questions about using Veterans Benefits in our programs, please contact our School Certifying Official, Darlene Karim, at
dkarim@mednet.ucla.edu
.
GI Bill® is a registered trademark of the U.S. Department of Veterans Affairs (VA). More information about education benefits offered by VA is available at the official U.S. government website at
http://www.benefits.va.gov/gibill
.
Resources
PCRF
Contact
Portal
SRRS Staff Page
Associate Resources
Courses
EMT
Paramedic
CPR, ACLS, PALS
Phlebotomy
Trauma
Students
Payment Methods
Financial Aid
Books
Transcripts
About Us
Contact
Giving
Leadership
Equity, Diversity
& Inclusion
Our History
Jobs at CPC
Privacy Practices
Privacy
|
Terms