Residency Program | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Residency Program
Welcome to the UCLA-Ronald Reagan/Olive View Emergency Medicine Residency Program! Our program is committed to providing the highest-quality medical education by exposing trainees to a diverse and wide breadth of experiences. This is paired with a novel “liberal arts” approach in which ample elective time and guidance is provided to allow development of depth within areas of interest in Emergency Medicine. We primarily work in three different Emergency Departments: Ronald Reagan-UCLA Medical Center, LA County Olive View-UCLA Medical Center, and Antelope Valley Medical Center. Each site is uniquely selected for the very different patient populations, pathology, and educational opportunities - together they deliver a balanced and complete Emergency Medicine training experience. Through training at these complementary, high-volume clinical sites, our graduates find themselves ready and prepared to work anywhere.
Our weekly conferences reflect the broad nature of our training. From Journal Club at a faculty member's home to EMS day on a sunny LA beach, our learning experiences are diverse and complementary. As future leaders, our residents are often involved at our medical school, in our residency, and our community. Whether it is a small group session teaching ultrasound to our medical students or working a medical tent in a local musical festival, we love to get involved! We are proud of our many faculty members who have gone on to be leaders in the field of medical education pioneering educational formats including EM-RAP, #FOAMed, Emergency Medicine Foundationa, and much more.
Explore the tabs in this section to find out more about how we are continuing to providing innovative, high-quality medical education!
Drs. Shamsher Samra (Chief Resident 2016-17) and Richelle Cooper (Associate Program Director) at a recent CORD Clinical Pathologic Case Conference.
Our residents working with the LA County Department of Fire at a recent EMS conference day at Will Rogers State Beach.
Drs. Rachel Shing and Steven Lai, both recent graduates, volunteering at the FYF Music Festival in Exposition Park, Downtown Los Angeles.
Drs. Jake Wilson and Angela Brown working at Olive View Medical Center.
Previous
Next
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health