Current Residents | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Current Residents
Hone your practice while making a difference
Helpful Resources and Information
Need to verify postgraduate training?
Credentials Verification
Share your voice
Fill out our Anonymous Communication Form
General Questions?
Email the GME team
Quick Links
handshake
Behavioral Wellness Center
contact_page
Contacts
people
Equity, Diversity, and Inclusion
hub
MedHub
checklist
Policies and Procedures
pregnant_woman
UCLA Lactation Resources and Spaces
sports
UCLA Recreation
domain
Working and Training at Affiliated Organizations Policy
Wellness, Safety, and Support
The GME Team views resident wellness as a top priority and encourages residents to practice self care by taking advantage of the many resources available to the UCLA community.
Behavioral Wellness Center (BWC)
Campus well-being resources
Office of Ombuds Mediation and Dispute Resolution Resources
Lactation Resources
Family Tree OT and Lactation
Ashley Karlin
, OTR/L, SWC, IBCLC
Phone: (818) 298-9933
Mama's Milk Works
Colette Wiseman
, MD, IBCLC
UCLA Lactation Resources and Spaces
Los Angeles Physicians Aid Association
Inclusive spaces across campus
UCLA Veteran Services
UCLA Recreation
IT support
UCLA LiveWell podcast
UCLA Wellness confidential support
UCLA Mindful Awareness Research Center
Certification and Licensure
Board Certifications
Please choose your program:
Allergy and Immunology
Anesthesiology
Clinical Neurophysiology
Dermatology
Emergency Medicine
Family Practice
Internal Medicine
Medical Genetics
Neurological Surgery
Nuclear Medicine
Obstetrics and Gynecology
Ophthalmology
Orthopaedic Surgery
Otolaryngology
Pathology
Pediatrics
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation
Plastic Surgery
Preventative Medicine
Psychiatry and Neurology
Radiology
Surgery
Thoracic Surgery
Urology
DEA Registration
Physicians practicing in a federal or state facility that are required to obtain an individual DEA registration are exempt from paying the DEA registration fee (Section 1301.21 of Title 21, Exemption from fees). Please fill out the
online application
.
Access online application
Address
For house staff who receive mail in the UCLA Medical Center House Staff Mail Room, Room B711 RRUCLA Medical Center is to be used as the campus address. All others should use their department address.
UCLA Medical Center, 757 Westwood Plaza, Los Angeles, CA 90095
Registration Classification
Mark the box indicating 'Practitioner' and add 'M.D.' or D.D.S.' as appropriate.
Do NOT check the box for order forms.
This is NOT for prescriptions.
Certification for Fee Exemption
To be completed by the applicant's program director or department chair.
Licensure Policy
Licensure Policy
Residents will be required to sign a statement at the time of appointment, acknowledging that they understand and will comply with the
UCLA GME Medical Licensure Policy (Revised February 2022).
Read the Medical Licensure Policy
Non-Compliance
Residents and fellows will be notified when they commence training that their appointment will be contingent upon compliance with California physician licensure requirements.
Residents and fellows who fail to meet California physician licensure requirements by the start date of their training program will not be appointed. For trainees enrolled in ACGME accredited programs at UCLA, failure to comply with California physician licensure requirements will result in administrative action per the
Academic Due Process Policy
.
Read the Academic Due Process Policy (PDF)
Training programs are required to notify the California Medical Board or Osteopathic Board in the event of a change in status for trainees working under a PTL within 30 days of the event, including but not limited to resignation, termination, or any disruption in training.
Licensure Requirements
All residents and fellows who participate in Post-Graduate training in Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education (ACGME) accredited programs must comply with State of California Physician Licensure requirements.
California Medical Board Licensing Requirements
Osteopathic Medical Board Licensing Requirements
Licensing Exams
Read UCLA GME's Licensing Exam Policy
USMLE STEP 1 & 2/COMLEX Level 1 & 2
Incoming PGY 1 residents are required to take and pass the first two steps of the applicable Licensing Exam, either USMLE or COMLEX, to be eligible for employment at UCLA.
Trainees starting at the PGY 2 level from an outside institution must pass all three steps of the Licensing Exam prior to the start of training at UCLA.
USMLE STEP 3
Failure to pass all steps of the US Medical Licensing Exam and obtain a full and unrestricted Medical License in accordance with Medical Board Licensing regulations will result in automatic suspension in accordance with the
Academic Due Process Policy
.
Read the Academic Due Process Policy (PDF)
Academic and Career Development
Courses and Opportunities
Canopy Medical Spanish Courses
Global Health Program Opportunities
UCLA Medical Staff Subcommittees
Regulations, Policies, and Compliance
2024-2025 Resident Agreement
Bargaining Units and Agreements
GME Policies and Procedures
HIPAA Privacy and Information Security Training
Safe Patient Handling Legislation
UCLA Insurance and Risk Management
Resident Committees
For information on joining any of these committees, please contact the
GME Office
.
Annual Institutional Review Committee
EDI Committee
GMEC Policy Subcommittee
Medical Staff Committees
Resident Life and Community
ACGME Resident/Fellow and Faculty Surveys
GME Contacts
Resident Benefits and Salaries
UCLA Community Housing
UCLA Health Sciences Store
UCLA MedHub
Resources
Accreditation Council for Graduate Medical Education
GME Competency Education Program - "Resident as Teacher" Module
GME Presentation – Role Model for Learning (PDF)
GME Workshop – Intentional Role Modeling (PDF)
Presentation – Giving Effective Feedback (PDF)
The Center for Prehospital Care
The United States Medical Licensing Examination® (USMLE®)
UCLA Biomedical Library
Excellence in Teaching With Humanism Award
Learn more about the Excellence in Teaching with Humanism Award and past award winners.
See Award Winners
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login