Prospective Residents and Fellows | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Prospective Residents and Fellows
We chase breakthroughs
Love feeling fulfilled at the end of a day that mattered.
Need to verify postgraduate training?
Credentials Verification
Take The Aerial Tour
Quick Links
diversity_3
Justice, Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
book
Programs
3d_rotation
Virtual Tours
person
Why UCLA?
domain
Working and Training at Affiliated Organizations Policy
Where ambition meets joy
Work so meaningful it expands how you define yourself.
California’s #1-ranked hospital, affiliate training sites, and the fact that Los Angeles offers one of the most diverse patient populations in the country means there is simply no better place to hone your practice of medicine than here at UCLA.
More About Us
View our Brochure (PDF)
2024-2025 Resident Agreement (PDF)
Explore UCLA Health
Thrive Everywhere
Walk into any clinical situation and feel expertly qualified. The experiences and diverse sites you’ll find here will set you up for success anywhere.
Programs
High Tech, High Touch
At California’s #1-ranked hospital, you’ll care for patients from all corners of the globe as well as have access to top minds and state-of-the-art equipment.
Tools for Success
Ask Big Questions
Collaborate with forward thinking colleagues to solve problems faster, with vast research partnership opportunities at your fingertips.
Partner Faster
Info for visiting fourth-year medical students
Visiting Students
The Application Process
Recruitment, selection and appointment of residents and fellows is performed by the Program Directors with oversight by the Institution's GMEC and in accordance with ACGME and California Medical Board requirements.
Please visit your program of interest’s information page for the most accurate and specific application instructions. See the
Programs
page for a list of residency and fellowship programs.
Learn more about the residency application process
Alert
Most programs accept applicants through the Electronic Residency Application Service (ERAS). Positions will be matched through the National Residency Matching Program (NRMP).
Compassionate care with colleagues who get it
"I have been at UCLA for over 20 years. Every day, I have learned something, I have taught someone, I have helped someone. That has allowed me to have a very rich and fulfilling career, and stimulates me to come to work every day."
Dr. Charles Flippen, Past Program Director for Neurology Residency
See Yourself Here
Living a #LifeofImpact
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login