Concur Expansion Updates | Business & Finance Solutions
Skip to Main Content
Business & Finance Solutions
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Concur Expansion Updates
NOW LIVE: Concur General Refunds
Effective November 6, all new general refunds must be submitted through the Concur system.
November 06, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
NOW LIVE: UCLA Finance Support Portal
Effective September 1, all new Travel Accounting, T&E card, PCard, and Non-T&E Reimbursement inquiries are routed through the UCLA Finance Support Portal.
September 01, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
UCLA Finance Support Portal Launching September 1
When we announced the Concur Expansion, we promised streamlined support and increased inquiry transparency. We’re making this a reality with our fourth expansion pack: the UCLA Finance Support Portal.
August 22, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
NOW LIVE: Concur Non-T&E Reimbursements
Effective July 10, all new non-T&E reimbursements must be submitted through the Concur system.
July 10, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
New Non-T&E Reimbursement Process Launching July 10
We’ve been working closely with BruinBuy users to design, test, pilot, and deploy an easy-to-follow non-T&E reimbursement solution that meets everyone’s needs.
June 21, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
NOW LIVE: Concur PCard Statement Reconciliation
The new PCard reconciliation process is now live! Here’s everything you need to know about this exciting change.
June 16, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
New PCard Reconciliation Process Launching June 16
The current PCard reconciliation process is complicated and can diminish the many perks associated with the purchasing tool. It’s time that changed!
May 25, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
Concur Expansion Packs
UCLA’s financial modernization efforts are rooted in continuous improvement. With numerous updates and enhancements on the horizon, we’re adopting a staggered deployment schedule.
May 02, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
Concur Expansion: March Recap
The Concur Expansion is well on its way, and campus engagement is in full swing!
April 03, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
Announcing the Expansion of Concur
Ascend 2.0 is reimagining and modernizing UCLA’s financial landscape. As the University prepares to transition to its brand-new procurement system, BruinBuy Plus, we’ll be expanding the functionality of our current Concur system.
February 17, 2023
Concur Expansion Updates
Subscribe to Concur Expansion Updates
Filter Articles
Created On or After
Keywords
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use