Explore Professional and Graduate School Programs |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
Graduate Admission
The graduate programs at UCLA are some of the most esteemed in the world, consistently ranked in the top 25. Forty doctoral programs rank in the top 10.
Our campus offers more than 130 graduate and professional programs, ranging from an extensive selection of business and medical programs to degrees in 40 different languages. On average, UCLA admits 14,000 graduate students of the 55,000 who apply each year. At UCLA, you’ll be among the best and brightest in the world.
Our programs combine  the learnings of one field with the components of another, to create a hybrid of deep specialized knowledge. The notion that knowledge is produced through multidisciplinary approaches is paramount at UCLA. We offer faculty and graduate students the opportunity to collaborate on research projects and study groups that transcend departments and programs.
These collaborations go beyond the campus. UCLA enjoys strong connections to other major universities as well as public and private institutes and firms thanks to its location within Los Angeles. Our graduate students engage with these communities both academically and culturally as a part of the UCLA graduate experience. The students who thrive in the environment are creative, determined and unrelenting in their search for new ways to answer questions.
If this sounds like you, check out our programs and learn more about what we have to offer.
Applying to a Graduate Program
Most graduate applications are processed through the Graduate Education Department. Explore 130+ graduate degree programs and choose the one that’s right for you.
Explore Graduate Programs
Steps to Apply to a Graduate Program
Professional Schools
Four of UCLA’s professional programs offer their own specialized application processes. Follow the links below to learn more about admission steps and requirements at these four schools.
Anderson School of Management
David Geffen School of Medicine
School of Dentistry
School of Law
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept