International Student Application and Resources |   UCLA
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Navigation
Skip to Search
Skip to Search
Skip to Main Content
Skip to Footer Links
Events
Newsroom
Magazine
Alumni
Arts
Careers
Give
International Applicants
A diverse campus community, located in the vibrant, global city of Los Angeles, makes UCLA an ideal destination for international students. In fact, more than 12,000 international students call UCLA home.
With accomplished faculty and extensive resources, we offer world-class academic opportunities. And UCLA is a university that truly understands the needs of international students, with a range of dedicated programs and services to ensure that you get the most out of your education abroad.
Applying to the University of California
In addition to standard application requirements, incoming international applicants must demonstrate proficiency in English if they completed all or some high school or secondary school in a country where English was not the language of instruction. To do this, they must take the TOEFL (Test of English as a Foreign Language), the International English Language Testing Service (IELTS), or the Duolingo English Test (Fall 2023 only).
Admitted international students may also be required to take the English-as-a-Second-Language Proficiency Examination (ESLPE) before the term in which they enter UCLA.
Continue to International Undergraduate Admission
Continue to International Graduate Admission
Resources for International Students
Dashew Center for International Students and Scholars
The UCLA Dashew Center is the central hub for resources, support and advocacy for international students and scholars. The Dashew Center serves the international community by providing visa services and support to students and scholars prior to their arrival and throughout their time at UCLA. The Dashew Center also enhances the UCLA experience for international students and scholars through our inclusive and multicultural programs, student leadership roles and language advancement programs. Our mission is to serve as a resource and learning center for the entire UCLA community to promote global connection, international understanding and cultural sensitivity.
Explore International Student Support
Undergraduate Orientation and Transition Programs
The first step for international undergraduate students begins with
New Student Orientation
. International students can opt for a session in September to minimize travel or enroll in an online and in-person orientation program.
Incoming freshmen can also enroll in our
College Summer Institute
program. This seven-week residence program allows students to get acclimated to UCLA and the university experience before the rigor of classes begins.
Other Educational Programs
Students from all over the world, including high school students, can join our educational community through a variety of programs that include summer courses and institutes, longer-term certificate programs and language immersion programs.
Explore Summer Programs
Explore Language and Certificate Programs
Important Information
Visa Services
The supportive staff at the Dashew Center will help you obtain and maintain your F-1 visa throughout your attendance at UCLA. We can also offer expert assistance in helping you obtain an I-20 form that you must present to the U.S. Consulate to receive your student visa.
Health Insurance
All students (international included) must be covered by health insurance. Most students will be automatically enrolled in the
UC Student Health Insurance Plan (UC SHIP)
. This fee will appear on your tuition statement. You may waive this fee if you can prove you have equivalent private insurance. Please note: The United States does not have a national health care plan, which means each individual is responsible for his or her own health care coverage.
Los Angeles 90095
(310) 825-4321
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
X
Youtube
TikTok
Threads
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Report Misconduct
Privacy & Terms of Use
Cookie Policy
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent; however, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and revised
Privacy Policy
.
I Accept