Visa Licensing | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Visa and Licensing Office
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA Visa and Licensing Office supports DGSOM administrators, faculty, and staff with visas and immigration for international scholars, researchers, and clinicians.
Hours:
11 AM to 12 Noon
1 PM to 4 PM
Monday - Friday, by appointment only
Please note that office hours may be subject to change without advanced notice.
Location
Address:
Center for Health Sciences
17-078 CHS
10833 Le Conte Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Mail Code: 709107
Contact Information:
Joan Grace R. Cerera
Assistant Director, Visa and International Medical Licensing Office
jcerera@mednet.ucla.edu
Visa Tracking System
Eligibility and Categories
There are various types of non-immigrant visas for temporary visitors to visit DGSOM for short and long-term activities. The nature of the intended activities to be undertaken at DGSOM, combined with the interpretation and application of the immigration regulations that govern an individual’s status, will help determine what type of immigration status is sponsored.
In this section, you will find information about DGSOM policies and procedures, as well as important information about immigration regulations that may limit or prohibit certain activities. This information is intended to be used as a guide; it is not intended to replace consultation and advisement by the DGSOM Visa and Licensing Office.
Quick Reference Definitions
J-1:
The Exchange Visitor (J) non-immigrant visa category is for individuals approved to participate in work-and study-based exchange visitor programs.
H-1B Temporary Worker:
For individuals coming to be a temporary
full-time
position with a U.S. employer that requires a professional level of education and experience.
O-1 Extraordinary Worker:
Available to individuals who have demonstrated a record of national or international acclaim, a level of expertise indicating that the person has risen to the very top of the field of endeavor.
Permanent Residence:
The DGSOM will support applications for permanent residence if the position is permanent, full-time career, and sufficiently high level (e.g., appointments in the Professor and Professional Research series).
B-1/B2 Visitor:
Intended for individuals visiting the U.S., generally restricted from working while in the U.S.
Visa Waiver Program:
The visa waiver program allows citizens of certain countries to enter the U.S. without visas.
E-3:
The E-3 nonimmigrant classification allows citizens of Australia to perform services in a specialty occupation in the US.
J-1 Category
ATTENTION:
United States immigration regulations require all J-1 visa holders to report to the Visa & Licensing Office (J-1 Exchange Visitor Program Sponsor) immediately upon arrival in the U.S. Failure to do so will result in serious consequences to immigration status and future visits to the U.S.
The J visa is a nonimmigrant visa. The purpose of the Exchange Visitor Program is "
to provide
foreign nationals with opportunities to participate in educational and cultural programs in the United States and return home to share their experiences, and to encourage Americans to participate in educational and cultural programs in other countries
" (8 CFR 514.1(b)). Exchange Visitors (EVs) enter the U.S. on a J visa. The DS-2019 (Certificate of Eligibility for Exchange Visitor (J-1) Status) is required to obtain a J-1 nonimmigrant visa at a U.S. Consulate abroad, to extend the stay of the J-1 in the U.S., or to transfer from another institution to UCLA.
ELIGIBILITY
UCLA School of Medicine sponsors visiting scholars only. There are 4 categories under which a visiting scholar can be classified in J-1 status. Please refer to the table below for eligibility and conditions. If your prospective Exchange Visitor (EV) has been in the U.S. as a J-1 Exchange Visitor in either the Professor or Research Scholar category or as J-2 dependent status within the last 12 months for a period exceeding 6 months, he/she is not eligible to enter the U.S. as a J-1 research scholar or professor to start a new program. The minimum educational level required for all categories below is a master's degree or bachelor's degree with substantial experience in their respective specialty field.
Professor
- Maximum 5 years
To teach courses and conduct advanced research. This category includes Lecturers and Professors on
non-tenured track appointments
.
Research Scholar
-Maximum 5 years. Includes time spent at another institution on a J-1 visa
To participate in research activities under the supervision of a UCLA faculty member. May hold PGR or Visiting Scholar Appointments. May not hold a Clinical title. This category also includes speakers at Conferences receiving an honorarium from UCLA.
Specialist
- Maximum of 1 year. No extension of stay allowed
An individual who is an expert in a field of specialized knowledge or skill coming to the U.S.A. for observing, consulting, or demonstrating special skills. May hold SRA or equivalent appointment.
Short-term Scholar
- Maximum of 6 months. No extension of stay allowed
A professor, researcher, or person with similar education or accomplishments coming to the U.S.A. on a short-term visit for the purpose of lecturing, observing, consulting, training, or demonstrating special skills. This category includes speakers at Conferences receiving an honorarium from UCLA.
Non-Degree Student
- Maximum of 2 years. Maximum of 20 hours of employment per week. No more than 50% of funds can be personal
A student currently enrolled in a graduate program abroad is coming to UCLA to conduct research. Classified as a "Visiting Graduate Researcher" and appointed through the Graduate Division. Provisional appointment through the Graduate Division is required. Contact the Graduate Division PRIOR to submit a J application in this category.
HOME RESIDENCE REQUIREMENT
The Immigration and Nationality Act has placed certain limitations on J-1 visa holders. one of these is the
"two-year home residence requirement"
.
EVs may be subject to this requirement if their financial support comes totally, or in part, from the U.S. government, the home country's government, or certain international organizations (i.e. WHO, UNICEF, PAHO, etc.).  This means that EVs are ineligible to change from J-1 to H-1 or permanent resident status unless they reside for two years in their country of last legal permanent residence or nationality, or unless they obtain a waiver of this requirement.
EVs who have private funding for their programs at UCLA are subject to the two-year residence requirement if their field of specialization and home country are included on the Exchange Visitor Skills List.  This list includes countries that have shortages of trained professionals in specific fields of specialization.
The U.S. Embassy or Consulate makes a determination at the time of visa issuance, and the USCIS acting on behalf of the U.S. State Department determines the applicability of this requirement to an EV's program upon entry into the United States.  An EV subject to this requirement may apply for a
waiver of the home residence requirement
.
EVs may decide to change their status to another visa category while in the United States.  When changing status, if there is a discrepancy on either the visa stamp or the DS-2019 (one state subject to 212(e), and the other states not subject), then it will be necessary for the individual to apply for an Advisory Opinion with the State Department.
EMPLOYMENT OF EXCHANGE VISITORS AND THEIR DEPENDENT(S)
EVs are authorized to receive funds from the organization(s) listed on the DS-2019. EVs wishing to receive funds from other than those sources require special authorization(s) from their visa sponsor.  Employment may be authorized by the Dean's Office if:
it is directly related to the program's objective,
it is incidental to primary program activities, and
will not delay the completion of the program
J-1 visa holders whose DS-2019 were not issued by UCLA must be authorized in writing by the issuer of the DS-2019 before being compensated for services rendered at UCLA unless authorized in writing by their respective J-1 sponsor.
J-2 visa holders (dependents of J-1s), may work in the U.S. if they show economic necessity and are specifically authorized by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Service (USCIS).  For more information, please contact Visa and Licensing Office at the School of Medicine.
EXCHANGE VISITORS FUNDING AND SOURCES OF FUNDS
Before an DS-2019 is issued, UCLA must be satisfied that prospective EVs have sufficient funds to carry out their primary activities at UCLA.  The table below shows the current minimum amounts required to qualify for J-1 status at UCLA. Additionally, EVs must carry adequate health insurance throughout their stay at UCLA (see below).  Those who fail to comply with such requirement become ineligible for UCLA's J-1 sponsorship and will be terminated from the program.
New rates effective October 1, 2012:
Professors/Scholars/Specialist - $2247.33/month, $26,968.00/year
Spouse - $500.00/month, $6,000.00/year
Each Child - $222.25/month, $2,667.00/year
If the Exchange Visitor:
Will receive a check generated by UCLA's Payroll Office- source is UCLA. (Supporting document is not needed as long as the Chair signs the application form.)
Will be paid directly by one or more agencies - source is U.S. Government Agency*.  Be sure to identify each one.
Will receive direct funds from organizations such as the UN, UNICEF, etc. - source is International Organization*.
Will be funded by an agency of the EV's government - source is Home Government*.
Will receive monies from the Fulbright Commission, will be paid by a private organization, university or foundation in the U.S. or abroad - source is Binational Commission Other Organizations
Will use personal/family funds, sabbatical salaries, etc. ATTACH ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS.  If the documents are in a foreign language, an English translation must be attached, and a conversion into U.S. dollars must be made - source is Personal Funds.
*will be subject to the 2 year home residence requirement 212(e) based on government funding
For an EV funded by UCLA, please indicate:
source; e.g., department budget, DOE grant, etc.,
if appropriate, Payroll title; e.g., Visiting Assistant Research Physiologist,
whether the position is tenure/non-tenure track, and
whether or not Medical Insurance will be paid by the funding source. If so, name the insurance carrier.
MANDATORY HEALTH INSURANCE REQUIREMENT
The U.S. Code of Federal Regulations governing Exchange Visitor Programs (22CFR514.14) require that the EV and his/her dependent(s) obtain health, accident, medical evacuation and repatriation of remains insurance. A qualifying insurance policy MUST provide:
medical benefits of at least $100,000 per accident or illness
repatriation of remains in the amount of $7,500
expenses associated with the medical evacuation of the exchange visitor to his or her home country in the amount of $10,000
a deductible not to exceed $250 per accident or illness
The insurance policy must be underwritten by an insurance corporation having an A.M. Best rating of “A-“ or above, an Insurance Solvency International, Ltd. (ISI) rating of “A-“ or above, a Standard & Poor’s Claims paying Ability of “A-“ or above, a Weiss Research, Inc. rating of “B+” or above, or such other rating services as the State Department may specify from time to time.  Insurance coverage backed by the full faith and credit of the government of the exchange visitor’s home country shall be deemed to meet this requirement.
Any exchange visitor who willfully refuses to comply with this requirement shall be considered to be in violation of his/her exchange visitor status.  The program sponsor is obligated to inform the State Department of the exchange visitor’s noncompliance.
In addition to meeting federal regulations, all exchange visitors are also required to meet the appropriate campus or institutions’ medical insurance requirements. All J-1 exchange visitors appointed through UCLA Graduate are required to enroll in the Visiting Scholar Injury and Sickness Insurance Plan (VSISP) through Garnett-Powers & Associates. Information regarding eligibility, requirements, enrollment and the waiver approval process can be found on the UCLA Graduate Division website at
http://www.gdnet.ucla.edu/gss/postdoc/vshlthbnft.htm
as well as on the Garnett-Powers site at
http://www.garnett-powers.com
.
PROGRAM TRANSFER
EV who will continue a program (study, research, or teaching) started at another institution may transfer to if:.
the J-1 visa category (research scholar) will not change.
the time spent at UCLA will not exceed the length of time allowed for the respective J-1 visa category.
the Responsible Officer at the other institution approves the transfer.
waiver approval by the State Department has not been issued.
Copies of ALL prior DS-2019s issued are required before we will issue an DS-2019. Changes of J-1 visa category, i.e. from student to research scholar/professor, require State Department approval and may be difficult to obtain.  For EV's whose I-94 forms show "D/S" as ending date, the transfer may be approved by UCLA.  Otherwise, USCIS approval is required and while the application is in process, the EV cannot receive any monies from UCLA.
TEMPORARY TRAVEL OUTSIDE THE U.S.
To return to the U.S., you must have:
A valid passport
A valid J-1 or J-2 visa stamp
An unexpired DS-2019 endorsed by the Responsible Officer (Only Responsible Officers are authorized to sign DS-2019s.)
If you do not need to renew your visa stamp, you can reenter the U.S. with an endorsed DS-2019. You must have a valid travel authorization signature on the DS-2019 for reentry. Present the new DS-2019 at the U.S. Consulate in your home country.
UPDATED - Special travel regulations for Canada, Mexico, or Caribbean Islands
If you visit Canada, Mexico, or the Caribbean islands (except Cuba) for 30 days or less, you will need your DS-2019 (endorsed by the Responsible Officer), I-94 card, and a valid passport. You will be allowed to re-enter the U.S. even if your visa stamp has expired, as long as you are in possession of all other required documents.  In such cases, your visa stamp is considered to be automatically revalidated.  The DS-2019 and the I-94 card must cover the period during which you are traveling.  As of April 1, 2002, the following categories of individuals are excluded from using this benefit:
Citizens of Cuba, North Korea, Sudan and Syria
The governments of Canada and Mexico may require citizens from your country to have a visa before entering their countries. You may need to pay a visa processing fee to enter these countries. Before traveling to either of these countries, check with the Canadian Consulate (1-213-346-2700) or the Mexican Consulate (1-213-351-6815) or check the
State Department’s website
for current information on foreign consulates in the U.S.
PROGRAM CATEGORY
Changes from one J-1 program category to another (i.e. research scholar to student or vice versa) are NOT usually permitted by the State Department or the USCIS. Therefore, exchange visitors should not be brought into the U.S. on J-1 visas under one program category with the assumption that they can shift easily to another program category after their arrival.  For category changes from research J-1 to ECFMG’s clinical J-1, please refer to
ECFMG’s website
or contact the Visa & Licensing Office.
B-1/B-2 or VISA WAIVER (WT/WB)
EVs who enter the U.S. on a tourist or personal business visa (B-1/B-2) will face difficulty in changing their status to J-1 visa.  It may take over 6 months to obtain J-1 status in the U.S., or they have to leave the U.S. and re-enter on a J-1 visa status.  EVs on B-1/B-2 or Visa Waiver status will not be permitted to participate as an Exchange Visitor during this period, nor can they receive any U.S. monies.  EVs on Visa Waiver status will not be permitted to change their status within the U.S.
H-1B Temporary Worker
Processing Time:
USCIS processing time can be greatly reduced by submitting a premium processing request, along with the H petition, to the USCIS. This check for $1225 should be made payable to the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services. Premium processing time at USCIS cannot exceed 15 working days.
Attorney Outsource Option:
All Initial H-1B processing is outsourced to immigration counsel (referred by the Dean's Office). Outsourced H-1B cases will entail legal fees. Due to prevailing wage issues, all bargaining unit H1-B cases must be paid by the department.
Travel Advisory:
Please note that if you are in the United States and applying for a change of visa status to H-1B, any travel plans should be put on hold until the visa has been approved by USCIS. The visa could take up to 6 months or longer for the USCIS to approve.
H-1B Portability Provisions:
H-1B workers who are currently employed in H-1B status are allowed to move to another H-1B employer in a similar position and be put on payroll once the USCS filing receipt is issued. Once USCIS has approved the new H-1B petition, the individual may continue employment with the new employer without interruption. The portability provisions require that the H-1B temporary worker be employed at the current employer at the time UCLA files a petition with USCIS on their behalf. Verification of employment, such as pay stubs, may also be needed.
TN PROFESSIONALS UNDER NAFTA
Under the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), Canadian and Mexican citizens in designated professions may be admitted into the United States in TN status for one-year intervals to work in their professions. Please note there are substantial differences in the procedures to acquire TN status for Canadian and Mexican citizens. Those individuals who have legal permanent residence in Canada, but do not have Canadian citizenship are ineligible for TN status. Citizens of Canada may use TN status to teach and do research at the University. The TN category for physicians does not support a clinical residency or fellowship. Citizens of Mexico may use the TN visa status to do research. The documentation and procedures for Mexican nationals to obtain TN status involve the filing of a Labor Condition Application (LCA), a process similar to the H-1B category. For TN applications and processing guidelines, please contact the
Dashew Center for International Students & Scholars (DCISS)
.
O-1 Extraordinary Worker
O-1 sponsorship is available to full-time faculty and high-level researchers who have been precluded from obtaining H-1B status due to the H-1B quota limitations, or those who have been unable to obtain a waiver of the two-year home residence requirement 212(e) (see the section on immigration information). For those who are subject to the two-year home residence requirement, the international visitor must realize that he/she must travel outside the United States to obtain the O-1 visa once the petition is approved.
The O-1 is not to be used for training positions such as Clinical Resident or Fellow. An O-1 visa petition will be supported by DGSOM only when the applicant has applied for internal approval, been approved by the Dean’s Office, and notified as cleared by the Visa and Licensing Office. Once preclearance has been approved by the Dean’s Office, outside counsel will be engaged to assist with filing the petitions with USCIS.
Download the Internal O-1 Guidelines.
Permanent Residence
Some faculty and researchers may obtain U.S. permanent residence through employment at UCLA. The DGSOM will support applications for permanent residence if the position is permanent, full-time career, and sufficiently high level (for example, appointments in the Professor and Professional Research series qualify). Titles that are temporary in nature, such as Postdoctoral Scholar, or staff positions will not qualify. All potential applicants must be approved by the Dean’s Office and notified that preclearance has been approved by the Dean’s Office.
Once preclearance has been approved by the Dean’s Office, outside counsel will be engaged to assist with the filing of the permanent residence petition. For internal permanent residence guidelines and applications
download our permanent residence guidelines document
.
B-1/B2 Visitor
The most common visa categories are the B-1 Visitor for Business and the B-2 Visitor for Pleasure. Depending on each country’s reciprocity schedule, these visas may be granted for up to ten years. While the visa may be valid for up to ten years, periods of admission to the U.S. are normally authorized for only six months. Extensions may be granted for an additional six-month period. Individuals holding visitor visas must be careful not to confuse the validity of the visa with the authorized period of stay.
A visa will automatically be invalidated if the visitor overstays for even one day. B-1 business visitors are usually admitted only for the period required to conduct their business. In order to observe at UCLA, a B-1 business visitor must have an invitation letter issued by a UCLA faculty member and must check in with the UCLA Department upon arrival for additional processing. UCLA has additional restrictive policies concerning B-1 visitors and reimbursements. Visitors are generally prohibited from working in the United States. Although the visitor visa may appear to be an expedient way to enter the United States, we advise UCLA J-1 and H-1B candidates to NOT enter the United States on a visitor visa in the hope of obtaining a change of status to another visa category, since a change of status in the United States can take from 6 months to one year to obtain through the United States Citizenship and Immigration Services.
Visa Waiver Program
The visa waiver program allows citizens of the countries listed below to enter the United States without visas. Visitors receive either WT status (visitor for pleasure) or WB status (visitor for business).
These visitors cannot remain in the U.S. for more than 90 days and cannot extend or change to another status.
Andorra
Austria
Australia
Belgium
Brunei
Czech Republic
Denmark
Hungary
Estonia
Finland
France
Germany
Greece
Iceland
Ireland
Italy
Japan
Latvia
Liechtenstein
Lithuania
Luxembourg
Malta
Monaco
New Zealand
Norway
Portugal
San Marino
Singapore
Slovakia
Slovenia
South Korea
Spain
Sweden
Switzerland
Taiwan
The Netherlands
United Kingdom
E-3 Category
The E-3 nonimmigrant classification allows citizens of Australia to perform services in a specialty occupation in the US. Please contact the
Dashew Center
for questions regarding E-3 visa types.
Special Programs
There are various options for special programs at The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA in relation to obtaining a Visa. Please browse the selections below for more information.
Section 2111 Appointment
General Information
The 2111 Appointment is for a foreign medical school graduate who has an appointment with the DGSOM. The regulations require the physician to have 3 years of postgraduate basic residency training and be board-eligible, board-certified or equivalent in their basic discipline prior to requesting a Section 2111 appointment. The physician must be in the U.S. in the appropriate visa status. The 2111 appointment is only for incidental patient care activities, defined as 20% or less time.
Length of Eligibility
Section 2111 appointments may be renewed annually for up to 3 years.
Terminology
The international physician shall be known as "Section 2111 visiting fellow".
Activities
The Section 2111 visiting fellow may participate in the professional activities of the inviting department.
Limitations to Activities
The Section 2111 visiting fellow may NOT write prescriptions, bill patients for services, independently sign patient charts, serve as a primary care physician, or present him or herself as having a license to practice medicine in California.
Postgraduate training received under the Section 2111 may not be used to meet California medical licensing requirements. Professional activity is limited to the DGSOM’s affiliated hospitals, medical centers, and clinics.
All J1 researchers sponsored by UCLA cannot scrub in the Operating Room or assist in any capacity in surgeries unless they are directly supervised by their faculty supervisor.
Sponsorship/Supervision
The 2111 visiting fellow must be sponsored and directly supervised by an active DGSOM faculty member, who has valid California medical licenses. The DGSOM department chair must approve the sponsorship/supervision. The DGSOM faculty supervisor may not be on a J-1 visa. If the DGSOM faculty supervisor is practicing medicine under a Certificate of Registration, he or she may not supervise a physician who is in the UCLA J-1 program.
Please note that there may be federal regulations that place additional restrictions on foreign-educated physicians. For example, foreign nationals who enter the U.S. under the visa waiver program, B-1 business, or B-2 tourist non-immigrant visas are not eligible to participate in Section 2111 clinical activity. UCLA-sponsored J-1 visa holders must be involved in research or teaching activity. Their clinical activity must be "incidental" to their research and teaching activity.
2111 Key Issues for Medical Board
Please be aware that J-1 research visas will further restrict the 2111 appointment.
Appointments
Are not allowed to do any clinical/patient care until an appointment from the School and approval by the Medical Board are received.
Each appointee has a specific mentor and one or more supervisors.
The Medical Board prefers to call the trainees "Visiting Fellows" to provide clarity around supervision and to patients.
Teaching
May teach in research areas.
May teach in a clinical setting but no action may be taken without the attending/supervisors' input and decision.
Patient Care
No patient care may occur prior to receiving Board approval.
The only amount of clinical activity and at Medical Center(s) in the original letter of request may be done.
All clinical activity must be supervised. The level of supervision is dependent on the clinic's circumstance and level of potential risk. e.g. 1) Anesthesia - must have an attending present at ALL times. 2) Outpatient follow-up - can review with the attending after the patient is seen by the Visiting Fellow but before any decisions are made or the patient is released.
NO night call.
The supervisor may be any faculty member who has a current unrestricted license.
Visiting fellow may write notes, orders, or prescriptions BUT must be reviewed, approved, and cosigned by the supervisor before any action occurs.
May only do procedures under the direct supervision and if this was part of the "training" requested in the original letter.
Supervision
Must be performed by faculty with a valid California medical license.
Must be on-site and in-room (see above).
All documentation of clinical activities must be cosigned.
Supervision is most closely aligned to that of a third or fourth-year medical student, not at the level of an intern, fellow, or instructor (regardless of title and education in home country).
Need to have a level of supervision of 1:1 (student/faculty) and the supervisor must have adequate availability and time for review.
Medical Staff
Are NOT members of any Medical Staff.
Cannot obtain medical privileges.
Cannot work independently or suggest they are independent.
May NOT directly bill or have their "services" billed for.
Credit
May receive a Non-University certificate for a "special program".
No credit for Licensure, Boards or ACGME residency.
Future Plans
2111’s must be renewed yearly.
Maximum of 3 years
Overall
Special program applications will no longer be presented at the Medical Board meetings. Please allow 60-90 day processing time at the Medical Board.
Appointments are only made after a review of the individual’s credentials.
PART 1: To be completed by the Department
Complete the Special Programs
2111/2113 Administrative Processing Sheet
Write a letter requesting the Dean’s Office's support for a Section 2111. (
Sample 2111 Department Letter
)
Ensure the 2111 Applicant has completed the form and provided the required items.
Ensure 2111 Applicant, Faculty Sponsor, and Department Chairman sign the (
Limitations and Restrictions for Section 2111 form
)
Submit applications in a timely manner to the DGSOM Visa and Licensing Office.
Read the 2111 General Information
PART 2: To be completed by the Applicant
1. Complete the 2111 Application Form (Available from Visa Office)
2. Complete the Section
2111 Statement of Limitations
.
3. Return the form with the required items to the department that will be recommending you for the 2111. Do not send items directly to the Medical Board or the Dean’s Office.
Completing the 2111 Application Form
Please complete the 2111 Application Form.  Answer all question blanks.  Check YES or NO where appropriate, or write NONE or N/A (not appropriate)
Attach 2 photographs (A proof photo is not acceptable.)
Make sure you sign and date the application form.
Attach the following items to the form
A copy of your Curriculum Vitae (same as resume)
The original and a copy of your medical school diploma in the language of your country, along with a literal word-for-word English translation, if the diploma is not in English. The State of California DOES NOT accept the Certificate of Graduation in place of a medical school diploma. A copy of just the English translation is not sufficient; copies of both the original language diploma and translation are required.
A copy of your License to practice medicine issued by your home country, with an English translation. A translation alone is not sufficient.
If your country does not have a license, a letter from the agency or hospital that gives you the right to practice medicine is required.
An original Letter of Good Standing or Certificate of Good Standing, with an English translation, from the Ministry of Health or Medical Council that issued your license to practice medicine. Letters from employers are not accepted. All letters must state that “no disciplinary actions” have been taken against the physician and be dated within the last 90 days.
A copy of your Residency Certificate or written verification that you have completed 3 years of basic residency training. The certificate/verification must come from the hospital or facility where the training took place. The certificate/verification should state the dates of training, and if there are multiple training programs, a certificate/verification is needed from each one. If the original language is not in English, an English translation is required.
Verify that you are board-eligible, board-certified, or the equivalent in your basic discipline.
A signed Section 2111 Statement of Limitations. See form.
A signed Sections 2111 Statement of Intent.  See form.
If you are already in the United States, a copy of your I-94 arrival document.
If you are on a J-1 visa, a copy of your DS-2019 form.
If you are on another type of (non-immigrant or immigrant) visa, please provide a copy of the Approval Notice issued by the US Immigration and Naturalization Service, or other documents verifying your status such as a Resident Alien Card, Employment Authorization Card, etc.
Section 2113 Appointment
General Information
The Medical Board must have all items before it will issue a Certificate of Registration. If the Medical Board believes a faculty member is immediately licensable, it may deny the Section 2113 request.
The purpose of the Section 2113 Certificate of Registration is to allow a faculty member, who holds a 100% appointment at a California medical school the right to practice medicine within the scope of the faculty appointment. The Certificate does not allow the faculty member to open a private office outside of the UCLA faculty position.
The Certificate will be issued for one year at a time; it may be renewed annually for a total of 5 years. The Medical Board has the discretionary authority to require that the faculty member obtain an ECFMG Certificate prior to issuing a renewal of a 2113 Certificate.
The DGSOM Visa and Licensing will send out a memorandum to Departments approximately 90 days before the 2113 Certificate expires, requesting approval to renew the Certificate.
PART 1: To be completed by the Department
Complete the Special Programs
2111/2113 Administrative Processing Sheet.
Write a letter requesting the Dean’s Office support for a Section 2113. (
See Sample
)
Make sure the 2113 Applicant has completed the form and provided the required items.
Submit applications in a timely manner to the DGSOM Visa and Licensing Office.
Read 2113, General Information Sheet.
PART 2: To be completed by the Applicant
Completing the 2113 Application Form
Please complete the 2113 Application Form. Answer all question blanks. Do not leave blanks. Check YES or NO where appropriate, or write NONE or N/A (not appropriate)
Attach 2 photographs (A proof photo is not acceptable.)
Make sure you sign and date the application form.
Attach the following items to the form
A copy of your Curriculum Vitae (same as resume)
The original and a copy of your medical school diploma in the language of your country, along with an English translation, if the diploma is not in English. The State of California DOES NOT accept the Certificate of Graduation in place of a medical school diploma. A copy of just the English translation is not sufficient; copies of both the original language diploma and translation are required.
A copy of your License to practice medicine issued by your home country, with an English translation. A translation alone is not sufficient.
If your country does not have a license, a letter from the agency or hospital that gives you the right to practice medicine is required.
An original Letter of Good Standing or Certificate of Good Standing, with an English translation, from the Ministry of Health or Medical Council that issued your license to practice medicine. Letters from employers are not accepted unless the applicant is from the People’s Republic of China. All letters must state that "no disciplinary actions" have been taken against the physician.
A copy of your Residency Certificate or written verification that you have completed 3 years of basic residency training. If the original language is not in English, an English translation is required.
A copy of your ECFMG certificate, if you are a foreign medical school graduate.
A copy of your FLEX, NBME, USMLE, or LCME scores.
If you are already in the United States, a copy of your I-94 arrival document.
If you are a permanent resident or US citizen, provide a copy of your Resident Alien Card, Employment Authorization Card, US passport, or birth certificate.
Special Faculty Permit
The Special Faculty Permit is issued for faculty from other states or countries, which do not have a California State medical license. The Medical Board of California issues a Special Faculty Permit authorizing eminent academic physicians to practice medicine within California medical schools. Pre-information concerning the Special Faculty Permit is listed below:
The permit authorized by Section 2168 of the Business and Professions Code is intended to attract gifted academic physicians to the State of California, and enhance California’s position in the international medical community.
The Special Faculty Permit authorizes the permit holder to practice medicine only within the sponsoring medical school and any affiliated institutions in which the permit holder is providing instruction as part of the medical school’s educational program, and for which the medical school has assumed direct responsibility.
The permit is valid only while holding a full-time appointment at the level of a full professor in a tenure track position or its equivalent (i.e., in-residence) in the sponsoring medical school and fulfilling the duties assigned by the dean and department chair.
The permit does not authorize practice in other medical schools or in any setting outside the sponsoring medical school and appropriate affiliated institutions. Leaving the faculty of the sponsoring medical school or switching to another California medical school invalidates the Special Faculty Permit.
If the permit holder later desires to engage in the practice of medicine outside the parameters of the sponsoring medical school, he or she must apply for and meet all of the routine requirements for the standard, unrestricted California medical license.
The Special Faculty Permit is not intended to be a pathway to full and unrestricted licensure. Faculty service rendered in a medical school while holding a Special Faculty Permit will not satisfy the postgraduate training required for full and unrestricted licensure, nor entitle the permit holder to request a waiver of any of the routine licensing examinations or other requirements.
The permit is not time-limited; however, the permit holders must renew their permit at regular biennial intervals.
To obtain a Special Faculty Permit application, please contact the DGSOM Visa and Licensing Office.
The Special Faculty Permit Review Committee reviews the applications submitted to the Board pursuant to Section 2168.1 of the California Business and Professions Code and makes recommendations to the Medical Board of California relative to an applicant’s eligibility for the requested appointment.
The application deadline for the receipt, review, and determination that an application is complete and approved to proceed to a meeting has been established for each Committee meeting to ensure appropriate processing. These dates have been determined based on current staff assignments and mandatory staff furloughs. As a result of the challenges faced due to the reduced work hours, no exceptions to the deadlines will be considered. Therefore, please ensure that applications are submitted well in advance to allow for the complete process.
Exemption: Consultants and Guests
Section 2060.  Nothing in this chapter applies to any practitioner from outside this state, when in actual consultation with a licensed practitioner of this state, or when an invited guest of the California Medical Association or the California Podiatry Association, or one of their component county societies, or of an approved medical or podiatric medical school or college for the sole purpose of engaging in professional education through lectures, clinics, or demonstrations, if he or she is, at the time of the consultation, lecture, or demonstration a licensed practitioner in the state or country in which he or she resides.
Such practitioners shall not open an office or appoint a place to meet patients or receive calls from patients within the limits of this state.
Download a sample 2060 Request Letter
(word document).
Forms
Please find your category below to access, utilize, and print the applicable forms and documents.
J-1 Visas Forms
Notice to department staff prior to completing DS-2019 Request Form
FOR INITIAL ENTRY:
If your Exchange Visitor (EV) has been in the U.S. as a J-1 Exchange Visitor within the last 12 months for a period exceeding 6 months, he/she is not eligible to enter the U.S. as a J-1 research scholar or professor to start a new program.
If your EV has applied for permanent resident status (green card), he/she is not eligible for initial entry of J status.
FOR EXTENSION/TRANSFER:
If your EV has applied for permanent resident status (green card), he/she is not eligible for extension or transfer of J status.
If your EV has been granted a waiver by the U.S. State Department, he/she is not eligible for extension or transfer of J status.
Forms you'll need:
General Instructions
DS-2019 Request Form - Dept. Section
(MS Word Template)
DS-2019 Request Form - Employee Section
(MS Word Template)
Mandatory Health Compliance Form
Certificate of Medical Insurance for Postdoctoral Scholars
International Physician Attachment
Supporting Documents Checklist
J-1 Checklist
P39 for Sevis
P39 for Visa and Licensing Unit
Certification of English Language Proficiency
J-1 Insurance Compliance Certification (transfers and extensions only)
J-1 Interdepartmental Request Form
H1-B Visas
Please contact the
Dashew Center for International Students & Scholars (DCISS)
for forms and fees.
See the H-1B Policy for the School of Medicine.
TN Visa Application
Please contact the
Dashew Center for International Students & Scholars (DCISS)
for forms and fees.
O-1 Visas
To be completed by DGSOM Department and returned to the DGSOM Visa and Licensing Office. Please include a one-time review fee of $400. UCLA departments may use a Recharge Request Form (P-39) or personal check made payable to the U.C. Regents.
Guidelines & Application
Required Documents
Export Control Certification
Sample Appointment Letter
Sample Payment of Fees Letter
Permanent Residence
To be completed by DGSOM Department and returned to the DGSOM Visa and Licensing Office. Please include a one-time review fee of $400. UCLA departments may use a Recharge Request Form (P-39) or personal check made payable to the U.C. Regents.
Guidelines and Application
Sample Appointment Letter
Sample Payment of Fees Letter
Special Programs
Contact the Visa & Licensing Office to obtain the forms
Limitations and Restrictions for Section 2111
2111 Department Letter to Request Section 2111
(MS Word Template)
2111/2113 Administrative Processing Sheet
(MS Word Template)
Helpful Resources and Organizations
Below are some organizations, embassies, and services that will prove useful during your Visa acquiring process.
CA Medical Board
Department of Motor Vehicles
ECFMG
Exchange Visitor Program/State Department
Foreign Consular Offices in U.S.
Foreign Embassies in D.C.
Foreign Embassies in U.S.
I-94
Insurance Information
Social Security Administration
U.S. Embassies/Consulates Worldwide
U.S. State Department
United States Citizenship & Immigration Services (formerly INS)
Waiver of J Visa Two-Year Foreign Residence Requirement, 212(e)
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login