Support the Community | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Error message
Could not retrieve the oEmbed resource.
Support the Community
Change in our communities begin here
Support our DGSOM/UCLA Health service learning projects and community engagement outreach efforts as we work to provide relief, recovery, support and education in our community. Together, we can make a difference.
Student Run Homeless Clinic
The UCLA Student Run Homeless Clinic provides free medical care and showers to people who are experiencing homelessness in Los Angeles County.
Donate to the Student Run Homeless Clinic
Mobile Clinic Project
The Mobile Clinic Project combines the expertise of undergraduate students, as well as medical and public health students, to provide compassionate care for the unhoused.
Donate to the Mobile Clinic Project
MD/PhD Summer Research
The UCLA MD/PhD Summer Research Fellowship Program aims to diversify the physician scientist workforce by offering research opportunities, mentorship and guidance as students apply to the UCLA-Caltech Medical Scientist Training Program.
Donate to the MD/PhD Summer Research Program
Kindness Cart
The Kindness Cart officially launched in March 2021 to promote the health system vision and spirit of “kindness,” and to support the hard-working staff of the Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and the UCLA Santa Monica Medical Center.
Donate to the Kindness Cart
High School to Workforce Pipeline
The Allied Healthcare Careers Program provides outreach in the form of education and awareness around entry level career pathways in allied healthcare. Our dedicated team reaches over 45 agencies, annually, to foster peer mentorship and education to support the DGSOM pipeline efforts.
Expand High School to Workforce Pipeline Efforts
LGBTQ Health & Wellness Initiatives
UCLA Health is raising money to support LGBTQ health and wellness. Your gift will accelerate the growth of
LGBTQ programs
within our four central pillars of LGBTQ care: to create innovative patient care programs and resources, to promote LGBTQ health advocacy, to advance UCLA LGBTQ research and to provide in-depth education on LGBTQ health care.
Support LGBTQ Initiatives
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login