Med School | About | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
About
We are a community of life-long learners who believe health is a human right
COMMUNITY OF THINKERS
MD students at the Gold Humanism Honor Society induction ceremony
Team science in the Cardiovascular Research Theme (investigator team with Tamer Sallam, MD, PhD)
We train the next generation of health leaders and inspire the brightest minds to pursue a life of impact.
We are a groundbreaking community of problem solvers, caregivers, innovators, and life-long learners with a noble mission: to heal humankind by delivering leading-edge research, education, patient care, and community engagement.
We believe the greatest biomedical challenges of our time can be solved through cross-disciplinary collaboration.
Our single footprint, walkable campus, and our location in one of the most diverse cities in the world promote discovery and transformation by enabling our community to share ideas, facilities, equipment, and conversations.
#1
UCLA Health, in California and Los Angeles, 2023
#1
UCLA, Nationally Ranked Public University, 2023
$559M
DGSOM, National Institutes of Health Research Funding, 2022
#13
Most diverse medical school, U.S. News & World Report, 2023
See more rankings
MISSION AND VISION
Our mission is to deliver best-in-category patient care, research, and education that ultimately enables people to live their longest, healthiest lives.
See our Mission and Vision
CULTURE
We strive to provide an environment where every member of our community feels empowered to leverage their unique abilities to advance our shared goals.
See our Cultural North Star
DEPARTMENTS, CENTERS & INSTITUTES
Explore the departments and units that are answering fundamental questions, developing transformative technologies, and serving on the front lines of health.
View Departments
OUR PEOPLE
Our strength resides in our people—the faculty and staff who form the backbone of all mission areas. Search our directories of leaders, faculty, and staff.
Visit Faculty and Staff
HISTORY AND AWARDS
70 years of boundary-expanding work has brought us within reach of the healthier future we envision for our community, California, and humankind.
See all history and awards
Why Choose UCLA?
Life is distinct and at your fingertips, with training sites situated all over the city.
See More
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login