Community and Equity | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Community and Equity
Equity matters here
Community of Leaders
First-generation student graduating from the PRIME-LA program.
In our community, diversity is more than a buzzword
It’s the foundation for our clinical excellence.
Our community is made up of talented leaders who think deeply and work to combat inequities in healthcare, education, society, and most importantly, our own institution.
We’ve been working together to create a culture that is fully inclusive and that benefits from the excellence and experience of a diverse workforce and community. As a collective institution, our work is only just beginning, but that beginning makes us optimistic for a future filled with positive growth and also grateful for the continued support of every person in our community as we continue working as long as necessary to create the impact we need.
Justice, Equity, and Diversity Inclusion
The core values of JEDI are inseparable from our institutional goals of excellence in all tenets of healthcare, research, education, and community engagement.
Learn more
Community Engagement
Support for community-based research, service-learning, service delivery, education, and workforce development projects to advance our work in the community.
Learn more
Health, Equity, and Diversity Inclusion
At UCLA Health, we believe a diverse and inclusive health care workforce and environment results in better care, service and health outcomes for our patients.
Learn more
Alumni and Friends
Funding, collaboration, and partnerships help us serve individuals and communities previously beyond our reach.
Learn more
Progressing to structural change
Positive, sustainable, and authentic change; we value transparency as we make incremental progress.
Data Accountability Dashboard
Community Highlights
See all community highlights
Med student Lynn Nguyen: Continuing the traditions of rén
May 25, 2023
2 min read
Read the full article
They got into medical school, but first-gen students still face barriers
January 23, 2024
4 min read
Overcoming Obstacles to Become a Physician and Advocate
January 11, 2024
5 min read
Uplifting Underrepresented Groups Through Mentorship
June 30, 2023
4 min read
Dr. Cecilia Canales selected for National Academy of Medicine Scholars in Diagnostic Excellence program
May 25, 2023
2 min read
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login