Medical Education | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Education
Where ambition meets joy, build your life of impact at UCLA
What impact will your education have on the world?
Education at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA is about more than just learning.
Our
medical students
, trainees, and postdocs care for local communities, make discoveries in the lab, and form lifelong bonds — all while gaining the skills they need to change the face of health and advance our commitment to justice, equity, diversity and inclusion.
Medical Students
A dynamic new curriculum, a range of articulated and concurrent
medical degree
programs, and once-in-a-lifetime learning experiences spanning diverse training environments empower
medical students
to fulfill and expand their potential.
Learn More
Residents and Fellows
Renowned training sites, diverse Los Angeles populations, and robust
residency and fellowship program
opportunities give future health leaders and outstanding clinicians the experiences they need to thrive anywhere.
Learn More
Graduate Trainees
Our PhD programs allow trainees to reinforce clinical and/or basic science acumen while also immersing themselves in training and research catered to specific areas of interest while working together in the laboratories of world-renowned investigators.
Learn More
Postdoctoral Scholars
Postdoctoral scholars hone their independent research skills and pursue their career goals by taking advantage of the resources, professional development opportunities, and scientific community available in Biomedical, Life, and Health Sciences at UCLA.
Learn More
Center for Continuing Professional Development
Explore courses designed to help medical professionals maintain and upgrade clinical skills and knowledge, remain current with basic science research, and foster professional development in procedural skills. Formerly known as UCLA CME, or UCLA Continuing Medical Education.
Learn More
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login