Research Medical Center | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Research
High tech, high touch
A COMMUNITY OF CURIOSITY
Sara Snow with her research poster at the GIM Department of Medicine Research Day
Pioneering Spirit and Bold Innovation in a Medical Research Center
Medical breakthroughs start with novel questions.
Medical research at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA redefines what is possible in patient care. Researchers elucidate biological processes and solve medical mysteries, expanding knowledge to heal humankind—one breakthrough at a time.
Our medical research center has access to top minds, unparalleled partnership opportunities, and state-of-the-art equipment. This is where high tech meets high touch, you are never alone on your scientific quest here.
$559M
DGSOM, National Institutes of Health Research Funding, 2022
#13
Most diverse medical school, U.S. News & World Report, 2023
36
National Academy of Medicine Members
20
National Academy of Sciences Members
See more rankings
A RESEARCH MEDICAL CENTER WITH A PIONEERING SPIRIT
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA is one of the premier medical research centers and educational institutions in the nation. Our dedicated medical school faculty are committed to providing excellence in teaching our trainees pursuing careers in medicine and in the biomedical sciences. Scientists in the medical research center regularly make important new advances that benefit patients, worldwide, and society, in general.
Tissue Matching
1964: Paul Terasaki develops a tissue test that transforms organ transplantation.
See All Breakthroughs
Landmark leukemia drug
1983: Owen Witte pinpoints a genetic target crucial to the development of life-saving drugs.
See All Breakthroughs
Alzheimer’s research
2005: David Eisenberg’s model of amyloid fibers opens new avenues for treating neurodegenerative diseases.
See All Breakthroughs
Successful gene therapy
2015: Donald Kohn cures “Bubble Baby” disease using gene therapy.
See All Breakthroughs
Big discoveries begin on a collaborative campus
Our compact campus is home to leading experts in public health, engineering, computation, genetics, and other fields. Walk to a range of innovation hubs in less than 5 minutes. Collaborations and life-changing conversations are just a short walk away.
Broad Stem Cell Research Center
College of Life and Sciences
California Nanosystems Institute
Center for Health Sciences (CHS)
Depression Grand Challenge
Fielding School of Public Health
Henry Samueli School of Engineering
Institute for Precision Health
Institute for Society and Genetics
UCLA Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center
UCLA School of Dentistry
UCLA School of Nursing
To walk a few yards down the hall and talk to a collaborator who already knows how to do the technique you are interested in. That could save you years.
Christina Charles-Schoeman, MD, Chief, Division of Rheumatology
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login