Learners | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Learners
Continuing Medical Education and Lifelong Learning
The Center for Continuing Professional Development offers high-quality, evidence-based lifelong learning that focuses on new technology, procedures, and research findings to help physicians and healthcare professionals improve their knowledge and enhance patient care.
calendar_month
Regularly Scheduled Series (RSS) - UCLA Health & Affiliate Institutions
A regularly scheduled series (RSS) is a series of live, ongoing sessions, that are offered weekly, monthly, or quarterly. The Center for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD) works with UCLA Health and its affiliates to accredit series designed for and most often presented to healthcare professional staff.
Affiliate Regularly Scheduled Series
An affiliated regular scheduled series is offered in partnership with affiliated teaching hospitals.
Longitudinal Program Series
This is defined by the Center for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD) as a series with multiple ongoing sessions, similar to an RSS. The planning partners are external, and/or the target learner group includes people other than UCLA physicians and staff.
live_tv
Upcoming Courses
The Center for Continuing Professional Development works with UCLA and stakeholders to deliver a variety of in-person, live streamed, and hybrid courses.  A live course is defined as "a activity in which the learner participates in real time" by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME).  A live course is an on-site event or live-streamed through an online platform.
On-Demand Courses
The Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) defines enduring material as an on-demand activity where the participant chooses whether and when to take part. There isn't a specific time for participation, and the content can be accessed at any time during the program's lifespan. Examples include online interactive course content, recorded presentations, printed materials, and audio.
history_edu
CME California
CME California is an association of continuing medical education programs that provide health care professionals a high quality, evidence based education and tracks the requirements participants need to meet professional relicensure.
contact_support
Resources & FAQ
Our team has compiled a collection of resources and a list of answers to questions you're likely to have about continuing medical education courses at the David Geffen School of Medicine.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login