Planners | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Planners
Providership
Definition of Direct Providership
The ACCME defines a directly provided activity as one that is planned, implemented and evaluated by the accredited provider. Include co-provided activities (provided by two accredited providers) in this category if you are the accredited provider awarding the credit.
Definition of Joint Providership
The ACCME defines joint providership as the providership of a CME activity by one or more accredited and one or more nonaccredited organizations. Therefore, ACCME accredited providers that plan and present one or more activities with non-ACCME accredited providers are engaging in “joint providership.”
The term, joint providership, is not a legal partnership and is intended to as a descriptor of the collaboration of two eligible entities in the planning, designing, delivering and evaluating accredited education. As such, references of the relationship and meeting the accreditation requirements utilizes the term joint providership.
Collaborator Opportunities
We strive to enhance educational experiences to transform the practice of healthcare professionals through education. Collaborating with other organizations supports the ability to expand common reach. Organizations seeking collaboration are encouraged to submit a Request for a CE Consultation.
Request for a CE Consultation
Eligible Organizations
UCLA’s Center for Continuing Professional Development does collaborate with eligible organizations.
Eligible organizations are those whose mission and function are:
Providing clinical services directly to patients; or
Providing the education of healthcare professionals; or
Serving as fiduciary to patients, the public, or population health; and other organizations that are not otherwise ineligible. Examples of such organizations include:
Ambulatory procedure centers
Blood banks
Diagnostic labs that do not sell proprietary products
Electronic health records companies
Government or military agencies
Group medical practices
Health law firms
Health profession membership organizations
Hospitals or healthcare delivery systems
Infusion centers
Insurance or managed care companies
Nursing homes
Pharmacies that do not manufacture proprietary compounds
Publishing or education companies
Rehabilitation centers
Schools of medicine or health science universities
Software or game developers
Planner Toolkit
Submit a request for a consultation for
AMA PRA Category 1 CME Credit(s)™
or our services.
Request a Consultation
UCLA Accreditation & Conference Services Eligibility
For educational interventions to be considered, there must be:
A UCLA-faculty (at least part-time) as a course director or on the planning committee with decision-making ability
Financial backstop to address funding
Planning committee relevant financial relationships must be disclosed and mitigatable
Key Timelines
Our goal is the create a positive experience throughout the planning, delivery, implementation and evaluating process for planners, faculty (speakers), internal/external partners, learners and our team. To support the success of the course, below outlines key timelines for the planning to activation phase.
The timeline below represents the key outcomes, but each have many deliverables within them. Our services are on a first come first serve basis – we highly recommend engaging our team during the inception of the planning to fully conceptualize the course and tailored approach to activation. Early engagement further allows for the CCPD team to assess the available resources.
Conference Services (UCLA/Non-UCLA + Not Approved Venue)
15+ Months: Activity Proposal, Initial Planning, Service Scope, Financial Support, Venue Procurement*
11-12 Months: Secure Venue*, CE Application, Faculty Recruitment, Marketing Strategy
9-10 Months: Grant & Exhibit Procurement, Marketing Implementation, Learner Registration
7-8 Months: Faculty COI Management, Service Procurement
6-4 Months: Marketing, Learner Registration, Revenue Analysis, Faculty Content
1-2 Months: Content Validation, Evaluations Design, Course Preparation
Course: Course Activation
1-2 Months: Evaluation, Learner Credit, Financial Reconciliation
3-4 Months: Finalize Financials**
Conference Services (UCLA/UCLA-Approved Venue)
12+ Months: Activity Proposal, Initial Planning, Service Scope, Financial Support
11-12 Months: Secure Venue*, CE Application, Faculty Recruitment, Marketing Strategy
9-10 Months: Grant & Exhibit Procurement, Marketing, Implementation, Learner Registration
7-8 Months: Faculty COI Management, Service Procurement
6-4 Months: Marketing, Learner Registration, Revenue Analysis, Faculty Content
1-2 Months: Content Validation, Evaluations Design, Course Preparation
Course: Course Activation
1-2 Months: Evaluation, Learner Credit, Financial Reconciliation
3-4 Months: Finalize Financials**
*The timeline may vary for series and enduring material.
**Contract execution generally takes 6-8 weeks for review and signature by campus from the date of submission for fully complete agreements with the correct supporting documentation. These agreements are executed at the campus level. CCPD Team facilitates the contracts but does not have the authority to sign.
Educational Phases
The educational cycle is dynamic. Outlined below are the various phases that ensure planning to outcomes analysis to measure the success of an intervention. Our team of experts will partner with your and your planning committee throughout each phase to ensure our collective goals are met.
Planning
Delivery
Evaluation
Analyze
AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™ Formats
Our program currently accredits the following three activity format types, with a description and examples:
Live - Course
: An activity where the learner participates in real-time at a specific date/time.
Live – In-Person
Live – Virtual Live Streamed
Live – Hybrid
Longitudinal Programs
Live - Regularly Scheduled Series (RSS)
: An activity that is a series of multiple, ongoing sessions, primarily planned by and presented to the organization’s professional staff.
Grand Rounds
Tumor Boards
Case Conferences
Journal Clubs
Enduring Material
: An activity where the content is available for the learner to complete at a time and place of the learner’s choosing.
On Demand Modules
Web-based Learning
Eligibility for AMA PRA Category 1 CME Credit(s)™
All accredited educational interventions must:
conform to the AMA/ACCME definition of CME, including:
ensuring accredited continuing education serves the needs of patients and the public.
presenting learners with only accurate, balanced, scientifically justified recommendations.
assuring healthcare professionals and teams that they can trust accredited continuing education to help them deliver safe, effective, cost-effective, compassionate care that is based on best practice and evidence.
creating a clear, unbridgeable separation between accredited continuing education and marketing and sales.
address an educational need (knowledge, competence or performance) that underlies the professional practice gaps of that activity’s learners.
present content appropriate in depth and scope for the intended physician learners.
identified and communicate the educational purpose and/or objectives for the activity, and provide clear instructions on how to successfully complete the activity to the learners
utilize one or more learning methodologies appropriate to the activity’s educational purpose and/or objectives.
provide an assessment of the learner that measures achievement of the educational purpose and/or objective of the activity.
be planned and implemented in accordance with the ACCME Standards for Interdependence and Integrity.
ensure:
all recommendations for patient care in accredited continuing education must be based on current science, evidence, and clinical reasoning, while giving a fair and balanced view of diagnostic and therapeutic options.
all scientific research referred to, reported, or used in accredited education in support or justification of a patient care recommendation must conform to the generally accepted standards of experimental design, data collection, analysis, and interpretation.
when discussing, debating, and exploring new and evolving topics, these areas are clearly identified as such within the program and individual presentations without advocating for, or promoting, practices that are not, or not yet, adequately based on current science, evidence, and clinical reasoning.
not to advocate for unscientific approaches to diagnosis or therapy, or if their education promotes recommendations, treatment, or manners of practicing healthcare that are determined to have risks or dangers that outweigh the benefits or are known to be ineffective in the treatment of patients.
all decisions related to the planning, faculty selection, delivery, and evaluation of accredited education are made without any influence or involvement from the owners and employees of an ineligible company.
intervention is free of marketing or sales of products or services. Faculty must not actively promote or sell products or services that serve their professional or financial interests during accredited education.
Fees
Due the varied scope of serve, fees are based on various factors. Our team will advise of the fees following a consultation.
California Medical Association (CMA) Cultural and Linguistic Competencies and Implicit Bias Resources
The California Medical Association (CMA)
believes
cultural and linguistic competencies are essential to providing quality and accessible care, and also acknowledges that society has embedded and endemic structural racism and biases that affect the care that an individual receives.
To help bridge the gap, CMA’s continuing medical education (CME) team (CMA CME) has updated cultural and linguistic competency (CLC) standards and created standards for implicit bias (IB) that reduce health disparities, as well as comply with state law. CME providers must meet the various components to comply with state law beginning on January 1, 2022, and thereafter.
Business and Professions (B&P) Code Section 2190 requires CMA to develop standards for CLC and IB for inclusion in CME activities. B&P 2190 is codified through
Assembly Bill (AB) 1195
(Coto, 2005) and
Assembly Bill 241
(Kamlager-Dove, 2019).
Cultural and Linguistic Competencies and Implicit Bias
Planner FAQ
Accrediting Courses
Can I share the names of the learners?
The accredited provider must not share the names or contact information of learners with any ineligible company or its agents without the explicit consent of the individual learner.
What types of formats does your program accredit?
The Center for CPD currently accredits live activities and enduring material as described below:
Live Activity
: An activity that occurs at a specific time as scheduled by the accredited CME provider. Participation may be in person or remotely, as is the case of teleconferences or live internet webinars. (Examples: Live Courses – Individual includes In-person, Virtual Live Streamed, Hybrid (In-person and virtual live-streamed), Regularly Scheduled Series (RSS), and Longitudinal Courses.)
Enduring Material
: An activity that endures over a specified time and does not have a specific time or location designated for participation; rather, the participant determines whether and when to complete the activity. (Examples: online interactive educational module, recorded presentation, podcast.)
All activities certified for
AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™
by an accredited CME provider must meet all requirements for the above learning formats as well as the AMA’s core requirements for all activity formats.
Will you be expanding the type of educational programs accredited?
We anticipate expanding our education portfolios to include Performance Improvement-CME (PI-CME) and learning from teaching.
What are the fees for CCPD services?
The fees for accreditation and other Center for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD) services are determined based on various factors. Once the
consultation request
is submitted, a team member will schedule a consultation to understand the need to execute the educational intervention fully. Our fees will be provided before engaging in services outlined in the agreement.
May I work with another organization to accredit an educational intervention?
No. All
AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™
for UCLA must be accredited through the Dave Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA’s Center for Continuing Professional Development (CCPD).
How are credits calculated?
Live Course/Series
: Credit for a live activity is determined by measuring formal interaction time between faculty and the physicians’ audience; 60 minutes equals one (1)
AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™
; credit is designated in 15-minute or 0.25 credit increments and rounded to the nearest quarter hour.
Physicians claim the credit based on participation time, rounded to the nearest quarter hour; this is the number of credits awarded.
Enduring Material
: Credit is designated based on the average time it would take a small sample group of the target audience to complete the material. The CCPD will utilize a mechanism to establish credit if the result is the same. Credit is designated in 15-minute or 0.25 credit increments and rounded to the nearest quarter hour. Physicians who successfully complete the activity are awarded the number of credits for which the activity is designated.
Do you offer Maintenance of Certification (MOC) credit designations?
The CCPD does assist with accrediting educational interventions for the Maintenance of Certification (MOC) for participating boards. Additionally, when available, we will report accredited courses and participants directly to the participating specialty boards.
The team will provide the fees associated with the designation after the initial consultation.
Our educational intervention will include a diverse group of professionals. Can the CCPD grant credit to those healthcare professionals such as nurses, social workers, pharmacists, etc.?
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME) to provide continuing medical education for physicians. While many boards may accept
AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™
for other healthcare professionals, we would defer to those professionals to know the requirements and acceptable courses for maintaining the board certification and licenses.
The Center for CPD can facilitate the application process for credit designations for the target learners' healthcare professionals.
Each accrediting entity has different timelines, requirements, and fees. Notify our team during your consultation of the intent to apply for other credit designations.
Course Chairs/Directors
Who is allowed to be a course chair/director?
A course director/chair must be a UCLA Faculty with at least a part-time appointment and have decision-making ability. This individual assumes full responsibility for ensuring compliance with the ACCME, AMA, and University Policies.
What is the course chair/director responsible for, and can they have a designee?
The course chair/director is responsible for planning, designing, implementing, and evaluating the educational intervention. The CCPD will support facilitation. The accredited provider must not share the names or contact information of learners with any ineligible company or its agents without the explicit consent of the individual learner.
ACCME Standards for Independence and Integrity I Disclosures & Mitigation
Who must complete the disclosure form, and when must it be completed?
All individuals in a position to influence the planning, designing, delivery, evaluating, and analyzing education interventions are required to disclose the presence or absence of relationships with ineligible companies, regardless of their profession or career status, including students, residents, fellows, other healthcare workers, community partners, patients, etc.
What is the difference between an eligible and ineligible company?
The Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education (ACCME), our accrediting body, defines ineligible companies as companies whose primary business is producing, marketing, selling, re-selling, or distributing healthcare products used by or on patients.
When must the disclosure form be completed?
Disclosure forms must be completed and submitted
before
the individual engages in their role(s). For example, a planner must submit their disclosure before planning the educational intervention.
What must be disclosed?
All of the following must be disclosed. The CCPD team will determine, along with the course director or designee, if the relationship is a relevant financial relationship.
identify all individuals in a position to influence the content
obtain the list of all relationships with ineligible companies and the nature of the relationship within the past 24 months
develop and implement mitigation strategies
disclose the absence or presence of relevant financial relationships to the learners
What is the purpose of identifying relevant financial relationships?
By identifying, mitigating, and disclosing relevant financial relationships, we can create a protected space to learn, teach, and engage in scientific discourse free from influence from organizations that may be incentivized to insert commercial bias into education.
How do I update my Relevant Financial Disclosure Form?
If a relationship with an ineligible organization has changed, including but not limited to starting a new relationship, ending a relationship, and the nature of the relationship changes, update your
Electronic Disclosure Form
as soon as possible.
If an individual disclosed a relationship with an ineligible organization, can they still participate in the planning, delivery, evaluating and analyzing the activity?
Disclosures of relationships with ineligible companies does not automatically disqualify them from contributing to the activity. Once the disclosure form has been completed, if a relationship has been disclosed, the CCPD team will determine if the relationship is relevant and develop a mitigation plan if the relationship can be mitigated. If the relationship cannot be mitigated, the individual must be recused from the role, or the activity may not be accredited.
Are representatives for pharmaceutical or device companies allowed to contribute to the planning, delivery, or evaluating of accredited education?
The owners and employees of ineligible companies are considered to have unresolvable financial relationships and must be excluded from participating as planners or faculty, and must not be allowed to influence or control any aspect of the planning, delivery, or evaluation of accredited continuing education, except in the limited circumstances outlined in
Standard 3.2
.
Owners and employees are individuals who have a legal duty to act in the company's best interests. Owners are defined as individuals who have an ownership interest in a company, except for stockholders of publicly traded companies, or holders of shares through a pension or mutual fund. Employees are defined as individuals hired to work for another person or business (the employer) for compensation and who are subject to the employer's direction as to the details of how to perform the job.
If an individual reports that they have stock options with an ineligible company, how should the relationship be managed?
An individual who holds stock options in an ineligible company is not considered an owner or employee of that ineligible company.  Disclosure of stock options would follow the review and mitigation expectations as other relationships.
Commercial Support
We want to procure industry support for our activity. Can we apply directly?
No. To ensure compliance with the ACCME Standards for Integrity and Independence, all commercial support is procured by the CCPD team for accredited education.
Content Validation Expectations
Do all presentations or educational materials need to be reviewed in advance? If so, why?
Yes. All educational material must be reviewed to ensure it meets the Clinical Content Validation Expectations. Additionally, the material should be reviewed to ensure the faculty/presenter has created content that addresses the practice gap(s) and desired outcome.
A
Peer Review Form
must be completed by a chair/director or reviewer designee with a disclosure form on file without any relevant financial relationships. This form must be completed and approved before the content is delivered.
What is considered content?
Content is considered anything presented or displayed to the learners as a part of the educational intervention, including pre-work, during, and post-intervention material.
Can patients participate in the delivery of content?
Integrating patients into the planning and delivery of educational interventions provides diverse perspectives and often enhances the quality of education by sharing the patient’s perspective or experiences. Patients are required to comply with the same expectations as other faculty speakers/presenters, including completing disclosure forms. Additionally, patients will be required to complete the UCLA Patient Release form.
Marketing and Advertising
If we send out a save-the-date, can we indicate that CME is pending?
No. Activity marketing or advertising material may never indicate that “AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™ has been applied for” or any similar wording.
A “Save the date” announcement (such as a postal mailer with limited space) may indicate that the activity has been approved for AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™ without stating an exact number of credits if the accredited CME provider has already certified the activity. This announcement may read, “This activity has been approved for AMA PRA Category 1 Credit™” or similar language.
The Center for CPD must review and approve all marketing pieces before distribution to ensure it meets branding, accreditation, and UCLA standards.
Are we required to use the credit designation statement for advertising our educational intervention?
Yes. The AMA Credit Designation Statement must be used in any program materials that reference CME credit in print and electronic formats (e.g., a course syllabus, enduring material publication, or an internet activity landing page).
Activity announcements include all materials, in both print and electronic formats, that are designed to build awareness of the activity’s educational content among the target physician audience. The complete AMA Credit Designation Statement must always be used on any document or publication that references the number of
AMA PRA Category 1 Credits™
designated for the activity.
May we design our marketing material?
The Center for CPD partners with the activity partners on designing and developing marketing material. We welcome insight on creative direction/inspiration. To ensure compliance with accreditation standards, brand, and UCLA policies, the final approval will be provided by the Center for CPD.
We previously held the activity. Can we have a copy of the list of participants?
The Center for CPD does not share the list of participants and retains this information within our office.
Planner Resources
UCLA Resources
Clinical Content Validation Expectations
Clinical Content Validation Expectations (PDF Version)
As an accredited provider, we are responsible for ensuring that our accredited education is fair and balanced and that any clinical content presented supports safe, effective patient care.
All
content must be reviewed in advance of the session by a designee with
no
conflicts of interest to ensure that:
recommendations for patient care are based on current science, evidence, and clinical reasoning, while giving a fair and balanced view of diagnostic and therapeutic options. [Standards for Integrity and Independence 1.1]
scientific research referred to, reported or used in this educational activity in support or justification of a patient care recommendation conform to the generally accepted standards of experimental design, data collection, analysis, and interpretation. [Standards for Integrity and Independence 1.2]
new and evolving topics for which there is a lower (or absent) evidence base, clearly identified as such within the education and individual presentations. [Standards for Integrity and Independence 1.3]
it does not advocate for, or promote, practices that are not, or not yet, adequately based on current science, evidence, and clinical reasoning. [Standards for Integrity and Independence 1.3]
it excludes any advocacy for, or promotion of, unscientific approaches to diagnosis or therapy, or recommendations, treatment, or manners of practicing healthcare that is determined to have risks or dangers that outweigh the benefits or are known to be ineffective in the treatment of patients. [Standards for Integrity and Independence 1.4]
the content promotes improvement in health care and not the proprietary interest of a commercial interest (ineligible company). [Standards for Integrity and Independence 5.1]
therapeutic views must give a balanced view, usage of generic names, if trade names must be used, several companies must be used. [Standards for Integrity and Independence 5.2]
the content includes references.
If you have any questions or concerns, please contact the Center for CPD’s course lead or our team at
UCLACCPD@mednet.ucla.edu
.
Copyright Law: "Fair Use" Authorization and Liability Written Materials
Copyright Law (PDF Version)
Listed below are guidelines to provide directions on photocopying copyrighted materials for teaching. Under the "fair use" provision of the Copyright Act of 1976, you are permitted to photocopy and distribute portions of copyrighted works for educational use without securing permission from the owner or paying royalties. The law in this area is quite general, however, the conditions listed below must be met.
Teachers may reproduce copyrighted works for classroom use under the following University of California guidelines determining "fair use":
One copy for a teacher may be made of a book chapter; an article from a periodical or newspaper; a short story, short essay, or short poem; a chart, diagram, cartoon, or picture from a book, periodical, or newspaper.
One copy per student in the course may be made by or for the instructor if it meets the tests of:
Brevity: a complete poem of fewer than 250 words or an excerpt of not more than 250 words from a longer poem; either a complete piece of less than 2500words or an excerpt of not more than 2500 words from any prose work; one chart, diagram, drawing, cartoon, or picture per book or per periodical issue.
Spontaneity: the instructor may make such copies if there is insufficient time to contact the copyright holder for permission under the circumstances.
Cumulative Effect: except for news periodicals or newspapers, multiple copying can only be done 9 times during a class term.
Consumable material such as test sheets, answer booklets, and workbooks may not be copied.
Copying is not permitted to create anthologies or similar collections of material from a variety of copyrighted works.
If the material in question does not meet these tests, there is another way to legally reproduce copyrighted materials: by obtaining permission from the copyright holder. In most cases, a letter to the copyright holder is necessary. In the letter, the instructor should include the title, author, and edition of the materials, the number of copies to be made, the page numbers to be reproduced, the intended use of the material, the method of distribution (classroom, etc.), whether the material is to be sold, and the method of reprinting (ditto, photocopy, etc.).
Additionally, the following guidelines define unrestricted works:
Anyone may reproduce without restriction works that entered the public domain. Any work published in the U.S. before January 1, 1978, entered the public domain if it was published without a copyright notice.
Anyone may reproduce without constraint published works whose copyrights have expired. All U.S. copyrights dated earlier than 75 years ago have expired. Copyrights dated after 75 years ago may also have expired if they have not been renewed because the initial period of copyright protection prior to 1978 was 28 years.
U.S. Government Publications may be reproduced freely because they are not copyrightable.
Off-Air Recordings
Unless used within ten days of recording, it is recommended that instructors who wish to videotape excerpts of off-air broadcasts for use in the classroom, contact the program producer.
Cultural & Linguistic Competency (CLC) & Implicit Bias (IB) Standards for Continuing Medical Education
California state AB 1195 and AB 241 were both designed to “encourage physicians and surgeons to meet the cultural and linguistic concerns” of California’s diverse patient population. AB 1195, which became law in 2005, required CME to include content referable to cultural and linguistic competency, and AB 241, which became law in 2021, requires CME to include instruction in the understanding of implicit bias.
Although our CME office was able to satisfy AB 1195 requirements in its sponsored activities by including a handout listing and discussing major national and state legislation pertaining to the specified content, in 2020, the California Medical Association, in partnership with the ACCME, developed more rigid standards designed to encourage course chairs, planning committee members, and course faculty to consider the legislative intent of these two assembly bills when planning, developing and presenting content for CME activities, effective January 1, 2022.
As required by the new standards, included in this chair/planning committee/speaker packet, are the following materials:
Definitions of cultural and linguistic competencies (CLC) and implicit bias (IB)
Links to CLC and IB resources which you will find of value
Resources that highlight racial disparities referable to the patient population served by the physicians towards whom the CME activity is directed and which offer reflection and actionable items designed to help mitigate the cultural and linguistic factors and implicit bias which perpetuates them
In your role as the course chair, you are obligated to reflect on healthcare disparities in the patient populations impacted by your CME program and, as appropriate, include content that helps address cultural, linguistic, and implicit bias factors which potentially cause or contributes to the disparities. In addition, as the course chair, you are strongly encouraged to include diverse planners, faculty and/or patient representatives in the activity planning process, where appropriate.
Cultural and Linguistic Competency (CLC)
The ability and readiness of health care providers and organizations to humbly and respectfully demonstrate, effectively communicate, and tailor delivery of care to patients with diverse values, beliefs, identities and behaviors, in order to meet social, cultural and linguistic needs as they relate to patient health.
Implicit Bias (IB)
The attitudes, stereotypes and feelings, either positive or negative, that affect our understanding, actions and decisions without conscious knowledge or control. Implicit bias is a universal phenomenon. When negative, implicit bias often contributes to unequal treatment and disparities in diagnosis, treatment decisions, levels of care and health care outcomes of people based on race, ethnicity, gender identity, sexual orientation, age, disability and other characteristics.
Diversity
Having many different forms, types, or ideas; shows variety. Demographic diversity can mean a group composed of people of different genders, races/ethnicities, cultures, religions, physical abilities, sexual orientations or preferences, ages, etc.
Resources I Cultural & Linguistic Competency & Implicit Bias
Adverse Childhood Experiences: Tips to Help You Support Inclusivity and Equity
Beyond Health Care
Culturally Competent Healthcare Research
Culture and the Patient-Physician Relationship: Achieving Cultural Competency in Healthcare
Enhance Patient Care Through Better Cultural Awareness
Implicit Stereotyping and Medical Decisions
Physician, Know Thyself: The Professional Culture of Medicine as a Framework for Teaching Cultural Competence
Systemic Racism and U.S.  Health Care
The Role of Social Determinants in Promoting Health and Health Equity
Unconscious Bias Training That Works
Resources I Patient Populations and Disparities
Health Disparities by Race and Ethnicity: The California Landscape
JAMA Assessment of Mortality Disparities by Wealth Relative to Other Measures of Socioeconomic Status Among US Adults
JAMA: Trends in Differences in Health Status and Health Care Access and Affordability by Race and Ethnicity in the United States, 1999-2018
Quality of Evidence Revealing Subtle Gender Biases in Science is in the Eye of the Beholder
Systemic Racism and U.S. Health Care
Assembly Bills
Assembly Bill No. 1195: Cultural and Linguistic Competency
Assembly Bill No. 241: Implicit Bias
If you have any questions or concerns, please contact the Center for CPD’s course lead or our team at
UCLACCPD@mednet.ucla.edu
.
Manage Ancillary Activities Offered in Conjunction with Accredited Continuing Education
Standard 5 applies only when there is marketing by ineligible companies or nonaccredited education is associated with accredited continuing education.
The DGSOM CME Program is responsible for ensuring that education is separate from marketing by ineligible companies—including advertising, sales, exhibits, and promotion—and from nonaccredited education offered in conjunction with accredited continuing education. Companies that are ineligible to be accredited in the ACCME System (ineligible companies) are those whose primary business is producing, marketing, selling, re-selling, or distributing healthcare products used by or on patients.
ACCME’s Examples of Ineligible Companies
Advertising, marketing, or communication firms whose clients are ineligible companies
Bio-medical startups that have begun a governmental regulatory approval process
Compounding pharmacies that manufacture proprietary compounds
Device manufacturers or distributors
Diagnostic labs that sell proprietary products
Growers, distributors, manufacturers or sellers of medical foods and dietary supplements
Manufacturers of health-related wearable products
Pharmaceutical companies or distributors
Pharmacy benefit managers
Reagent manufacturers or sellers
Guidelines & Expectations
Arrangements to allow ineligible companies to market or exhibit in association with accredited education must not:
Influence any decisions related to the planning, delivery, and evaluation of the education.
 Interfere with the presentation of the education.
Be a condition of the provision of financial or in-kind support from ineligible companies for the education.
The accredited provider must ensure that learners can easily distinguish between accredited education and other activities.
Live continuing education activities: Marketing, exhibits, and nonaccredited education developed by or with influence from an ineligible company or with planners or faculty with unmitigated financial relationships must not occur in the educational space within 30 minutes before or after an accredited educational activity. Activities that are part of the event but are not accredited for continuing education must be clearly labeled and communicated as such.
Print, online, or digital continuing education activities: Learners must not be presented with marketing while engaged in the accredited education activity. Learners must be able to engage with the accredited education without having to click through, watch, listen to, or be presented with product promotions or product-specific advertisements.
Educational materials that are part of accredited education (such as slides, abstracts, handouts, evaluation mechanisms, or disclosure information) must not contain any marketing produced by or for an ineligible company, including corporate or product logos, trade names, or product group messages.
Information distributed about accredited education that does not include educational content, such as schedules and logistical information, may include marketing by or for an ineligible company.
Ineligible companies may not provide access to, or distribute, accredited education to learners.
Questions/Concerns
: Contact Ericka Cunningham at
elcunningham@mednet.ucla.edu
or (310) 794-0445.
Relevant Financial Disclosure & Mitigation of Conflicts of Interest (COI)
Disclosure of Relevant Financial Relationship Expectations (PDF Version)
We look forward to the opportunity to include you in our accredited continuing education activity.
Why am I receiving this communication?
The Center for Continuing Professional Development is accredited by the Accreditation Council for Continuing Medical Education. We appreciate your help in partnering with us to follow accreditation guidelines and help us create high-quality education that is independent of industry influence. To participate as a person who will be able to control the educational content of this accredited CE activity, we ask that you disclose all financial relationships with any ineligible companies that you have had over the past 24 months.
We define ineligible companies as those whose primary business is producing, marketing, selling, re-selling, or distributing healthcare products used by or on patients. There is no minimum financial threshold; you must disclose all financial relationships, regardless of the amount, with ineligible companies. We ask you to disclose regardless of whether you view the financial relationships as relevant to the education. For more information, visit
Standards for Integrity and Independence in Accredited Continuing Education
.
Why do we collect this information?
Since healthcare professionals serve as the trusted authorities when advising patients, they must protect their learning environment from industry influence to ensure they remain true to their ethical commitments. Many healthcare professionals have financial relationships with ineligible companies. By identifying and mitigating relevant financial relationships, we work together to create a protected space to learn, teach, and engage in scientific discourse free from influence from organizations that may have the incentive to insert commercial bias into education.
What are the next steps in this process?
After we receive your disclosure information, we will review it to determine whether your financial relationships are relevant to the education. Please note, that the identification of relevant financial relationships does not necessarily mean that you are unable to participate in the planning and implementation of this educational activity. Rather, the accreditation standards require that relevant financial relationships are mitigated before you assume your role in this activity. To help us meet these expectations, please use the form we have provided to share all financial relationships you have had with ineligible companies during the past 24 months. This information is necessary for us to be able to move to the next steps in planning this continuing education activity.
What if I have a change after submitting my disclosure form?
If you have any changes to your disclosure, you can:
Submit an updated disclosure
.
Email our team at
UCLACCPD@mednet.ucla.edu
Alternatively, you can notify our team If you have any questions, please do not hesitate to contact the program manager for the activity.
More Resources
National Resources
ACCME & SACME's CE Educator's Toolkit
and
WorkSheet Guide
ACCME Standards for Integrity and Independence in Accredited Continuing Education
AMA PRA Handbook (PDF)
American Medical Association (AMA) PRA Credit System Requirements
ELI Brief: Innovating with Purpose: The Blended Flow Toolkit for Designing Blended/Hybrid Courses
Microsoft PowerPoint Presentation Coach
Seattle University Blended Flow Toolkit
Iowa State University – Revised Bloom’s Taxonomy
UCF Objective Builder
RSS & Longitudinal Program’s Tools & Templates
UCLA CCPD templates and guides:
Announcements
(DOCX)
Application
(DOCX)
Attendees Roster
(Zipped XSLX)
COI Disclosure Slide
(Zipped PPT)
Faculty Communication
(DOCX)
Management Overview
(PDF)
Peer Review Form
(DOCX)
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login