Medical School | Admin Support | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Administrative Support
These resources provide answers to your most pressing administrative needs, including information on policies and procedures, immigration assistance, contract guidance, financial reporting, and more.
To suggest additional resources, please email
RAsst@mednet.ucla.edu
Policies and Procedures
The goal of the David Geffen School of Medicine is to provide guidance on the policies and procedures that affect the research conducted at UCLA. Please utilize the resources below for more information.
Contract and Grant Policies and Procedures at UCLA
University of California Policies Pertaining to Research
UC Office of Technology Transfer (OTT)
UCLA Administrative Policies and Procedures website (Specific Section on Research)
UC Office of the President
Office of the Human Research Protection Program
Office of Animal Research Oversight
Campus
Office of Research Administration
DOM Office of Research Administration
UCLA Clinical Trials Administration Office
Visa and Licensing
Find out how to get support for DGSOM administrators, faculty, and staff with visas, and request immigration assistance for international scholars, researchers, and clinicians.
Learn More About Visa and Licensing
Contract and Grant Administration
The Office of Contract and Grant Administration (OCGA) supports UCLA faculty in their sponsored project activities by providing expertise, assistance, and education. The OCGA assists with applications and negotiations for contracts and grants.
Learn More About Contract and Grant Administration
Extramural Fund Management
Extramural Fund Management (EFM) provides financial management support of sponsored project funds for the UCLA research community. The group’s expertise includes financial compliance oversite, reporting, invoicing, accounts receivable management, and more.
Learn More About Extramural Fund Management
Research Policy and Compliance
The Office of Research Policy and Compliance (RPC) provides leadership in shaping, interpreting and implementing UC and UCLA research-related policies, procedures, and guidance. The group also handles activities related to conflicts of interest and conflict of commitment regulations.
Learn More About Research Policy and Compliance
CTSI ResearchGo
CTSI ResesarchGO is a clinical research portal to resources, expertise and best practices for investigators, study staff, and partners/affiliates. Information is available on study design, clinical study management, regulatory components, trainings and related CTSI services.
Learn More About CTSI ResearchGo
CTSI Trial Innovation Network
The goal of the Trial Innovation Network (TIN) is to execute trials better, faster, and more cost-efficiently and to be a national laboratory to innovate the process of conducting clinical trials. TIN's expertise includes: using a single IRB system, master contracting agreements, quality-by-design approaches, and evidence-based strategies for recruitment and patient engagement.
Learn More About the CTSI Trial Innovation Network
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login