Research Cores | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Research Cores
Locate tools and services suited to your research
Core Technology Centers
Affordable and independent instrumentation and services suited to your research.
See more
Statistical Consulting
Advice and resources to enable you to develop and/or extend your statistical computing skills, helping you to independently use common statistical packages for the analysis of research data.
See more
Human Gene and Cell Therapy Facility (HGCTF)
UCLA Human Gene and Cell Therapy Facility (HGCTF) supports the manufacturing of gene and cell therapy products for UCLA investigators as well as other academic and industry partners conducting clinical trials in which a cell or gene therapy product is manufactured under an FDA IND. This facility is a joint effort of the David Geffen School of Medicine, the Human Gene and Cell Therapy Program (HGCTP), the Jonsson Comprehensive Cancer Center, and the Eli and Edythe Broad Center of Regenerative Medicine and Stem Cell Research.
Learn more about the facilities and equipment
The HGCTF is a 2,395 square foot Biosafety level 2 contained area with seven HEPA-filtered rooms (ISO 7/Class 10,000). Four positive pressure rooms are designed for ex vivo manipulation of cells to minimize the possibility of outside pathogen contamination. Three negative pressure rooms for gene transfer procedures, and ensure that the recombinant vectors do not contaminate the surrounding environment. Aseptic processing is carried out in biosafety cabinets (ISO 5/Class 100).
The overall operational plan for the facility includes controlled access, facility cleaning, continuous monitoring of the environment, air pressure, and equipment, scheduled routine preventive maintenance, and calibration of equipment. The quality system for the facility includes the appropriate management of out-of-specification (OOS) lab results and investigations, non-conforming materials and products, equipment and process deviations, change control, corrective and preventive actions (CAPA), and product review/release, and internal audits.
HGCTF Leadership
Dawn Ward, MD
Medical Director
Email Dawn Ward
Call Dawn Ward
Sujna Raval-Fernandes, PhD
Director
Email Sujna Raval-Fernandes
Call Sujna Raval-Fernandes
Examples of Clinical Trials supported by HGCTF
Immunotherapy of melanoma and sarcoma with TCR-modified T cells.
Immunotherapy of advanced malignancies with TCR-engineered PBMC.
Immunotherapy of glioblastoma with tumor antigen-pulsed dendritic cells (DC).
Immunotherapy of glioblastoma with allogeneic cytotoxic T lymphocytes (CTL).
Immunotherapy of renal cell carcinoma with Ad-CAIX/DC.
Gene therapy for ADA-deficient SCID, XSCID, XALD.
Retinal pigment epithelial cells for Stargardt and age-related macular degeneration
Specialized equipment
Miltenyi Biotec CliniMACS cell selection device
Miltenyi Biotec CliniMACS Prodigy cell selection and culturing device
Controlled rate freezer (CRF) for cryopreservation of cells
Pricing
Pricing varies and is based on the scope of work. Investigators planning to utilize the HGCTF for future research studies should include anticipated HGCTF costs in new grant application budgets. For further information on pricing, including costs for inclusion in grant budgets, please
email the HGCTF staff
.
Application Form
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login