Research Safety | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Research Safety
Good science is safe science.
The Research Safety Office coordinates the administrative structure for basic science research safety in the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA. Our mission is to help researchers understand the regulatory and compliance requirements for research at UCLA and to promote open communication about and adoption of safe laboratory practices.
This work is primarily achieved through the activities of the SOM Safety Committee and its members, the Department Safety Coordinators. Our committee is strongly oriented to the structure defined above, and we prioritize communication of updates from those groups. When needed, we develop tools or processes that support efficient satisfaction of compliance needs so our researchers can get back to the bench assured of their safety.
Governance structures at DGSOM
SOM Safety Committee
The SOM Safety Committee is chaired by the DGSOM Research Safety Director, comprised of Department Safety Coordinators, and represents the most comprehensive gathering of research safety stakeholders on campus, organized specifically for a DGSOM audience.
Department Safety Coordinators
Responsible to their home departments and advised by the Research Safety Director, Department Safety Coordinators encourage the open communication of research safety and compliance updates to researchers in their home departments. They represent the interests of their departments to the school and work on projects that help achieve their department’s research safety and compliance goals. See
resources for Department Safety Coordinators →
DSC roster
Organization of Research Safety at UCLA
This
chart
diagrams relationships between campus leadership, policy oversight groups (Blue), and safety programs and services (green).
Download the organization chart
Chart Author: Nancy Wayne, PhD, Professor & Associate Vice Chancellor for Research - Laboratory Safety
The Faculty-Led Committees review research protocols, create research policies and guidelines and work with corresponding safety programs.
These committees are the PIs’ liaison to the campus and their advocate through all levels of regulation. The committees represent the Office of the Vice-Chancellor for Research.
Learn more from
RSAWA
.
The Animal and Health & Safety Regulatory and Compliance Programs can be considered the operational arms of this structure.
Researchers will interact directly with representatives from the safety programs during lab setup, research safety training, inspections, and safety consultations.
Learn more from
campus EH&S
.
Director's Welcome
Erin Quinn
Director, Research Safety
Many resources and services that support research safety have been developed by different groups at UCLA, and they are gathered here for the convenience of DGSOM Researchers.
Whether you are setting up a UCLA lab for the first time or checking in for the latest information, you’ll find that here.
Upcoming Events
Get Set Up in 4 Simple Steps
The DGSOM Dean's Office sponsors a free lab coat laundry service for researchers.
Learn More
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login