Access Campus Resources | Reporting | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Reporting Resources
UCLA has a robust system of reporting resources and resolution services
MD Students, Graduate Students, Postdoctoral Scholars, and Residents and Fellows
If you have experienced or witnessed mistreatment (physical mistreatment, abusive expression, power abuse, psychological cruelty, sexual harassment, and/or discrimination) we encourage you to complete the Mistreatment Incident Reporting Form (MIRF).
Submit a Mistreatment Incident Report Form ( MIRF)
Other Reporting Options
Reporting trainee mistreatment
Reporting gender discrimination, including allegations of sexual harassment and sexual violence
Reporting an incident involving a student
Reporting an incident involving a staff member
Reporting an impaired staff member or physician
Reporting a near-miss or adverse event associated with patient care or disruptive behavior
Reporting unlawful and unethical acts
Confidentially discuss a conflict or concern and resolution options
UCLA Ombuds Services - CONFIDENTIAL
The Ombuds Office is an independent, impartial resource where anyone with UCLA-related concerns can explore potential options and resources in a confidential, informal setting. The Office can help resolve conflicts, disputes, or complaints. Exploration of options may lead to mediated discussions when appropriate.
Note
: Conversations with the Office do not constitute notice to the University. See reporting resources below to report an incident.
WEBSITE
Ombuds
EMAIL
ombuds@conet.ucla.edu
PHONE NUMBER
(310) 825-7627
Reporting trainee mistreatment - Mistreatment Incident Reporting Form - MIRF
MD Students, Graduate Students, Postdoctoral Scholars, and Residents and Fellows
The Medical Student Mistreatment Policy includes physical mistreatment, abusive expression, power abuse, psychological cruelty, sexual harassment, and discrimination.
Reporting Process
You can start by having a conversation with any or all of the following:
Individual(s) involved
Others such as the chief resident, attending physician, and/or clerkship/site director or course chair
Dean’s Office (Assistant Dean, Associate Dean, SAO, or leadership of Drew, PRIME or MSTP)
You can submit a report.
Mistreatment Incident Reporting Form
Reporting sexual violence, harassment, discrimination, and unprofessional behavior
The Civil Rights Office (“CRO”), which serves UCLA’s campus and the UCLA Health System, and is led by the Assistant Vice Chancellor for Civil Rights. CRO ensures that UCLA remains in compliance with federal and state law and applicable UC policy concerning protections under Title VI and Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, and Title IX of the Education Amendments Act of 1972, the Americans with Disabilities Act, Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973, and equal employment opportunity and affirmative action obligations. CRO is comprised of the following units:
The Discrimination Prevention Office (DPO) is responsible for assessing and investigating reports of discrimination or harassment based on race, ancestry, national origin, disability, religion, age, and other categories protected by law and University policy brought against academic personnel.
The Title IX Office (T9) is responsible for assessing and investigating reports of gender discrimination, sexual harassment, and sexual violence brought against any member of the campus community.
The Staff Diversity & Equal Employment Opportunity Compliance Office (SD&C) is responsible for assessing and investigating reports of all forms of discrimination or harassment protected by law and University policy brought against staff.
Retaliation
The University prohibits retaliation against a person who reports sexual misconduct, assists someone with a report of sexual misconduct, or participates in any manner in an investigation or resolution of a sexual misconduct report.  Retaliation includes threats, intimidation, reprisals and/or adverse actions related to employment or education.  This prohibition protects all participants in the investigation process, including the complainant, the respondent and the witnesses. Any employee who engages in retaliation may be subject to discipline, including dismissal, in accordance with the applicable University disciplinary procedures.
Report and Incident of
Discrimination or Harassment
WEBSITE
UCLA Discrimination Prevention Office
UCLA Title IX Office
Staff Diversity & Equal Employment Opportunity Compliance Office
EMAIL
dpo@equity.ucla.edu
titleix@conet.ucla.edu
staffdiversity@equity.ucla.edu
PHONE NUMBER
(310) 794-1232
(310) 206-3417
(310) 794-0691
Reporting an incident involving a student
Office of the Dean of Students
Report an Incident of Bias
WEBSITE
Dean of Students
EMAIL
dean@saonet.ucla.edu
PHONE NUMBER
(310) 825-3871
Reporting an incident involving a staff member
Staff Diversity and Affirmative Action/Equal Employment Opportunity Compliance Office (SD&C)
SD&C is a neutral and independent entity that investigates allegations of harassment and discrimination pertaining to any UCLA staff member. If you believe that you have been discriminated against or harassed based upon any protected category, you can file a complaint with SD&C.
Protected Categories
Protected categories include:
race
color
national origin
religion
sex
gender
gender expression
gender identity
gender transition status
pregnancy
physical or mental disability
medical condition (cancer-related or genetic characteristics)
genetic information (including family medical history)
ancestry
marital status
age
sexual orientation
citizenship
service in the uniformed services, including protected veterans
File an EEO Complaint
WEBSITE
SD&C
EMAIL
staffdiversity@chr.ucla.edu
PHONE NUMBER
(310) 794-0691
Reporting an impaired staff member or physician
Employee and Labor Relations (ELR)
Contact the ELR to report an impaired staff member.
Impairment Definition
An impairment is defined as:
"Any condition or behavior, regardless of cause, which interferes with the Member's ability to function as normally expected. Impairment or compromise may exist in one or multiple domains, including, but not limited to, psychomotor activity and skills, conceptual or factual recall, abstract thought processes, judgment, attentiveness, demeanor, and attitudes as manifested in speech or actions. Major symptoms of impairment or compromise may include declining work performance as manifested by repeated behaviors including decreased concern for patient wellbeing, unavailability, missed appointments, unexplained absences, incomplete medical records, poorly communicated medical orders, and withdrawal from hospital or other professional activities. Additional indications may be lapses in judgment, inappropriate relationships, boundary violations, signs or behavior related to intoxication, self-medication, or utilization of controlled substances, or misuse of alcohol. Change in character or personality, bizarre or embarrassing behaviors, deteriorating personal hygiene, and mood swings are further accompaniments of impairment or compromise. Compromise can also include excessive unprofessionalism; as indicated by behaviors including but not limited to, failure to return pages, repeated reports of poor or disrespectful communication, and harassing or aggressive behavior."
WEBSITE
UCLA ELR
PHONE NUMBER
(310) 794-0500
Reporting a near-miss or adverse event associated with patient care or disruptive behavior - SOFI
UCLA Health Safety Opportunities for Improvement (SOFI)
SOFI is UCLA Health's event reporting system for near-miss and actual events associated with patients, employees, and visitors. The event-reporting system is the primary source that UCLA Health uses to help us identify clinical opportunities for improvement. You may also utilize SOFI to report disruptive behaviors by patients, staff, and physicians.
Reporting Process
If a Unit Supervisor is notified, the Unit Supervisor will notify the Service Chief.
The Service Chief, or designee (defined as the "Reviewer") will gather information, including interviewing the Member, and make a determination regarding the allegation and determine if a referral to the Medical Staff Health Committee is warranted.
If the Reviewer determines there is imminent danger to patients, the Reviewer will immediately remove the Member from all patient care duties and will alert the Chief Medical Officer and the Administrator On Call.
If it is determined that a referral to the Medical Staff Health Committee is warranted, the Reviewer will compile all information from the Observer and complete the "Referral to the Medical Staff Health Committee" form (available in Appendix A of
policystat document
).
UNIT Supervisor or Service Chief
Per
policy # MS 107
, notify a Unit Supervisor or Service Chief about an impaired physician.
Access SOFI
(Safety Opportunities for Improvement)
WEBSITE
Employee and Labor Relations
PHONE NUMBER
(310) 794-0500
Reporting unlawful and unethical acts
UCLA Compliance/Whistleblower
Unlawful Acts
Use the hotline to anonymously report
unlawful acts such as corruption, bribery, theft or misuse of University property, fraudulent claims, fraud, coercion, willful omission to perform duty, economic waste, gross misconduct, gross incompetence or gross inefficiency; or any condition that may significantly threaten the health or safety of employees or the public.
Ethical and/or Legal Matters Related to Medical, Health Care, or Research Compliance
Matters include, but are not limited to:
HIPAA
Clinical research
Conflicts of interest
Vendor relations
Gifts and entertainment
Credentialingod
Coding and billing
Cost reports
Information security
Record keeping
Fair competition
State and federal health care
Research laws and regulations, and more.
Report an Unlawful Act
WEBSITE
UCLA Whistleblower Website
ANONYMOUS HOTLINE
(800) 296-7188
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login