Business & Finance Solutions - Concur Expansion FAQs
Skip to Main Content
Business & Finance Solutions
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Concur Expansion
Concur Expansion FAQs
General
What is an expansion pack?
With numerous updates and enhancements on the horizon, we’re adopting a staggered Concur Expansion deployment schedule. Our expansion packs are designed to provide maximum impact with minimal interruption, allowing you to adjust to each change before we deploy the next one.
When are more expansion packs coming?
Stay tuned! All Expansion updates will be posted to this site and communicated to the impacted user groups.
Is the Concur Expansion a short-term project?
Expansion packs will continue to be released as updates and enhancements are developed for the Concur system.
PCard
How can I learn more about the PCard expansion pack?
Check out our
PCard hub
—it houses all training materials, including the
Lifecycle of a PCard Transaction web page
. Our
PCard Reconciliation Info Session
recording is also available.
When did the PCard expansion pack launch?
The new Concur PCard reconciliation process launched on July 16. You can learn more in our
launch communication
.
Non-T&E Reimbursements
How can I learn more about the non-T&E reimbursement expansion pack?
Check out the
Non-T&E Reimbursements hub
for resources, including the lifecycle of a non-T&E reimbursement, exception request instructions, and comprehensive training guides. Our
Non-T&E Reimbursement Info Session
recording is also available.
When did the non-T&E reimbursement expansion pack launch?
The non-T&E reimbursement expansion pack launched on July 10. You can learn more in our
launch communication
.
Cash Advance
How can I learn more about the cash advance expansion pack?
Refer to our
Cash Advance hub
for additional information.
REMINDER:
Cash advances are only allowed in very limited circumstances.
When did the cash advance expansion pack launch?
The cash advance expansion pack launched on July 10.
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use