Pre Med Guidance Center | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Guidance Center
High School and Undergraduate Pre Med & Pre Health Students
There are so many things to prepare to
apply to Medical School
, it can be hard to know where to start. Wherever you are in your
pre-med
&
pre-health
journey, our Guidance Resource Center is designed to help you to:
Find support and resources to support your pre-med & pre-health interests
Understand the
medical school requirements
needed (and what you can start doing now)
Create a plan for
applying to medical school
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Drop-in Hour
A space to drop-in and ask questions along with other pre-med & pre-health students.
Via Zoom
Attend a Drop-in Hour
Guidance Appointment
Schedule a 15-minute one-on-one appointment with one of our staff to meet on Zoom.
Schedule
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Resources
MCAT Resources
Application Resources
Pre-Med & Pre-Health: Undergraduate
Pre-Med & Pre-Health: High School
Admissions FAQ
MCAT Resources
Prepare for the MCAT® Exam
The AAMC website provides resources such as what is on the MCAT exam, how to create a study plan, free planning and study resources, low cost products, and MCAT FAQs.
MCAT Resources from AAMC
(paid resource)
Low cost products from the AAMC such as MCAT Guides, practice question sets, full-length practice exams.
Khan Academy MCAT
(free resource)
A free online course that covers foundations of the MCAT and provides practice passages for various sections of the MCAT.
Uworld MCAT Question Banks
(paid resource)
A paid resource that provide practice tests including detailed rationales for all answer options, performance tracking, and digital flashcards.
Sketchy MCAT
(paid resource)
A paid resource that has courses, review cards, and quiz questions geared towards connecting MCAT topics visually.
Blueprint MCAT Full Length Test
(paid resource)
A paid resource that provides different levels of prep such as live online classes, online courses, tutoring, practice exams, and a customizable study planner tool.
Application Resources
AAMC 2023 Application Guide
The Association of American Medical College guide that outlines the sections of the AMCAS Application.
Medical School Admission Requirements™ (MSAR®) for Applicants
An online database that enables you to browse, search, sort, and compare information about U.S. and Canadian medical schools and BS/MD programs, and more.
Fee Assistance Program (FAP)
The AAMC Fee Assistance Program (FAP) assists those who, without financial assistance, would be unable to take the Medical College Admission Test® (MCAT®), apply to medical schools that use the American Medical College Application Service® (AMCAS®), and more.
Pre-Med & Pre-Health: Undergraduate
Find a pre-med advisor through NAAHP
The National Association of Advisors for the Health Professions has created resources for students, particularly for those who have no other access to advising support.
AAMC Postbaccalaureate Premedical Programs
For those considering a postbaccalaureate program after their undergraduate degree.
UC Postbaccalaureate Consortium
The UC Postbaccalaureate Consortium programs offer comprehensive academic enhancer pre-medical postbaccalaureate programs designed to assist students from disadvantaged backgrounds in gaining admission to medical school. The programs seek students who are committed to practicing in underserved communities of California. Located at UC Davis, UC Irvine, UC Los Angeles, UC San Francisco, and Charles R. Drew University.
UCLA Pathway Programs Available for Undergraduate Students:
DGSOM Office of Outreach and Pathway Programs
The Office of Outreach and Pathway Programs hosts 2 summer pathway programs to prepare promising but disadvantaged students for professional training and careers in medicine.
UCLA-wide Opportunities
A helpful website for pathway and other resources held at UCLA for undergraduate students.
UCLA Health Community Engagement Pipeline Programs
A helpful website for pipeline programs held at UCLA for undergraduate students.
Pre-Med & Pre-Health: High School
Pathway Programs Available for High School Students
UCLA-wide Opportunities
A helpful website for pathway and other resources held at UCLA for High School students
UCLA Health Community Engagement Pipeline Programs
A helpful website for pipeline programs held at UCLA for High School students
Admissions FAQ
Watch videos on the admissions frequently asked questions:
Top 5 FAQ
Application FAQ
Requirements FAQ
Financial Aid FAQ
Student Life FAQ
Pre-Health Office Hours and Guidance Appointments
Have questions? Connect over Zoom with our staff to learn about DGSOM medical tracks, pre-health summer programs, and postbacc programs.
Learn more
Office of Outreach and Pathway Programs
Location
: Geffen Hall, Suite 305
Phone Number
: (310) 825-3575
Email
:
prehealthguidance@mednet.ucla.edu
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Opportunities
Connect with Us
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login