SHPEP | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Summer Health Professions Education Program (SHPEP)
Freshmen and sophomore college students
SHPEP
You'll change the face of medicine
We are delighted that you are considering SHPEP the UCLA/CDU Summer Health Professions Education Program at the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, UCLA School of Dentistry, UCLA School of Nursing, and the Charles R. Drew University School of Nursing. At UCLA/CDU SHPEP, we are committed to developing future leaders that will change the face of medicine, nursing, and dentistry as well improve health care delivery, policy, and research in underserved communities.
SHPEP dates
June 17, 2024 - July 26, 2024
Virtual:
June 17, 2024 - June 21, 2024
In-Person:
June 24, 2024 - July 26, 2024
Move-in:
Sunday, June 23, 2024
Move-Out:
Saturday, July 27, 2024
Important dates
Application Opens
- November 1, 2023
Application Closes
- February 5, 2024 at 8:59 p.m. (PST)
Admission Notification
- March 15, 2024
About SHPEP
The UCLA/CDU SHPEP mission is to serve as a model learning community in which students examine a variety of healthcare issues affecting medically underserved communities through problem-based learning cases, lectures, clinical experiences, small-group discussions, and a research project.
Students will also improve their learning skills and strengthen their foundation in science. Upon completion of this six-week program, students will be more aware of the urgent need for health care professionals in medically underserved communities and of the educational pathways that lead to providing medical, nursing, dental, and health services to underserved populations.
Academic Enrichment
Scholars will take part in workshops that encourage development of their analytical reading, study, time management, and analytical research skills. Scholars will also participate in a problem-based learning (PBL) curriculum in which they will study clinical cases and develop an action plan to solve the clinical case. PBL will reinforce concepts of physical sciences (physics and general chemistry), biology, & organic chemistry lectures.
Health Professions School Admissions Counseling
Scholars will develop individual academic plans to reach specific career goals. Scholars will participate in individual advisement sessions that will help prepare them to apply to health professional schools. Health professionals will provide scholars with presentations to better understand pre-health professional requirements so they can plan the rest of their undergraduate career.
Personal Development
Scholars will strengthen their passions for the health professions and create a community of peers who will support them along their journey. Scholars will talk about mental health, imposter syndrome, and other critical topics to ensure they have the skills to succeed in the health professions.
Introduction to the Health Professions
Scholars will have interactive panels with Health Care professionals and program alumni to discuss a range of career pathways and opportunities. Various health professionals will provide students with presentations to better understand the scope of practice of different health careers. Scholars will also be able take part in track-specific simulations and experiences to further their understanding of the health professions.
Focus on Health Disparities
Scholars develop statistical and analytical skills through working on a small group project related to describing and developing an understanding of the health issues and epidemiology of underserved communities. Scholars will then specific underserved community and suggesting an appropriate health intervention to ameliorate some of the community's health issues.
Longitudinal Mentorship
During the program, scholars will be paired with a current professional health care professional who will serve as their mentor during the program. Scholars will maintain this mentor relationship beyond the 6-week program, to ensure the scholar as an ongoing support system.
Read the UCLA Health article
: "
Interested in health care? This free enrichment program gives students a sneak peek
"
Student Eligibility
All students who meet the Summer Health Professions Education Program eligibility requirements are encouraged to apply.
Applicants must meet the following requirements:
Must be a high school graduate and currently enrolled as a freshman or sophomore in college
Have a minimum overall college GPA of 2.5
Be a U.S. citizen, a permanent resident, or an individual granted deferred action for childhood arrivals (DACA) status by the U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services
Must not have previously participated in the program
Other factors for consideration include that a student:
Comes from an economically or educationally disadvantaged background; and/or
Has demonstrated an interest in issues affecting underserved populations
Submits a compelling personal statement and a strong letter of recommendation
SHPEP Application Process
Online applications for SHPEP 2024 opened on November 1, 2022 and close on February 5, 2024.
Applications are managed through the SHPEP website, to apply please visit the site to submit your application.
All inquiries regarding the status of the application and receipt of supplemental documents must be directed to
shpep@aamc.org
SHPEP 2024 Application
Apply Here
SHPEP FAQ
I don't have health insurance; does that mean I cannot participate in SHPEP?
UCLA housing requires that people who use the dorms have access to health insurance just in case something happens to them when they are at the dorms. As a result, scholars are required to provide proof of health insurance.
Can I bring my own car to the dorms?
It is probably not a good idea to bring a car during the 6-week program. Parking on campus is expensive; parking will cost you about $75/month which will amount to $150 for the duration of your time at UCLA. There are good bus connections to downtown L.A. and to Santa Monica and to the beach.
What kinds of books should I bring to SHPEP?
We strongly promote reading as part of our curriculum and will give you books for the reading required in the classroom, but any books that you have wanted to read would be a great thing to start with before even coming on board.
Do we have access to the Gym?
Yes. The John Wooden Center is a multi-faceted facility. It features 3 gymnasia, basketball courts, indoor & outdoor weight training, stretching mats, stationary bicycles, stair climbers, treadmills, rowing machines, and a Rock Wall.
Can we have visitors at UCLA?
Yes, anywhere but the dorms. This is strictly enforced out of concerns for your safety and the safety of others and that applies to your parents and family as well. Absolutely NO ONE other than SHPEP students may ever enter or stay in the dorm rooms. However, on MOVE-IN and MOVE-OUT days, your parents are welcome to help you and enter the dorms, as we welcome their assistance!!
What will our schedule look like?
Sample Schedule
- Please note that the schedule changes every year, and this is only to be used as an example.
Is there a cost to attending UCLA/CDU SHPEP?
No. Students will be provided with housing, breakfast and dinner, and a stipend that will cover the costs of lunch through the 6-weeks.
Can I participate in SHPEP if I am a junior or senior in college, or if I have already graduated from college?
No. SHPEP is exclusively for current freshman and sophomore college students. However, we encourage you to pursue other enrichment opportunities.
Will SHEP help me prepare for the MCAT or DAT?
SHPEP does not have an MCAT exam or DAT preparatory component. However, the program's basic science curriculum covers content that is included in the MCAT exam and DAT.
What is a pre-health advisor?
A pre-health advisor may be a faculty or staff member at your institution in your dean’s office, career, or student services center.
I am a freshman and have not recieved my grades yet, can I send in my high school transcript?
SHPEP does not accept high school transcripts. If you are a freshman in college and you have not received your first semester/quarter grades we encourage you to send in your transcripts to the National Program Office in January once your first semester/quarter grades have been established and finalized.
Who should I pick to write reference letters for me?
This should be someone who knows your academic and personal character. Ideally, this should be a pre-health advisor and/or a college professor. If none of these persons know you well enough, a high school science teacher or a local dentist or physician who knows you well will work. Pick someone who can speak in detail about you. (And don't forget to ask them if they can write you a positive reference letter!)
Can I have a job or take other classes during the 6 week program?
SHPEP is an intense full-time program with required events in the evenings and on the weekends. You will not be able to keep up with a job or with taking other classes. One-hundred percent of your focus needs to be on SHPEP when you are here.
I am a recipient of the federal government's Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals Program (DACA). Can I still apply to SHPEP?
Yes, DACA recipients are eligible.
I am an international student. Can I apply to SHPEP?
Students are required to have U.S. citizenship, hold a permanent visa (not a student visa), or be DACA recipients in order to join the SHPEP program.
I am a student from a foreign country. Can I participate in SHPEP?
SHPEP is an undergraduate program for freshman and sophomore college students. However, we encourage you to pursue other enrichment opportunities.
I am in my 3rd/4th year in community college, am I eligible to apply to UCLA SHPEP?
You may apply to UCLA/CDU SHPEP as long as you have not transferred to a four-year institution by the summer you plan to attend SHPEP.
Campus Health and Safety Precautions
Summer 2023 Programs
In addition to UC’s
vaccination requirement
, the campus has implemented a number of health and safety protocols designed to keep the Bruin community safe this fall. For a full list of these protocols, see our UCLA
COVID protocols page
.
All students participating in SHPEP,
PREP
, and
RAP
are expected to comply with UC health and safety protocols to participate in our programs.
Please see current precautions, requirements, and information
for students
.
See student requirements
Pre-Health Office Hours and Guidance Appointments
Have questions? Connect over Zoom with our staff to learn about DGSOM medical tracks, pre-health summer programs, and postbacc programs.
Learn more
Office of Outreach and Pathway Programs
Location
: Geffen Hall, Suite 305
Main Number:
(310) 825-3575
Email:
uclashpep@mednet.ucla.edu
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Opportunities
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Guidance Center
Connect with Us
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login