Pre Med Programs | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
UCLA Pre-Medical Enrichment Program
Pre Med Summer Program
Designed for Juniors, Seniors, and Recent College Graduates
Pre Med Enrichment Program (PREP) is a 6-week intensive summer program that provides
pre med
students with the means to strengthen their ability and readiness to study medicine. Full participation in the PREP program allows participants to enhance their chances of being accepted to medical school and succeeding once there.
PREP is designed to support students who have experienced social, economic, or educational disadvantages in their journey to medical education.
The Pre Med Enrichment Program prepares students through academic enrichment, personal development, MCAT review sessions, longitudinal application support, focus on health disparities, interview skills and practice, and longitudinal mentorship.
Program Dates:
Jul. 8, 2024 – Aug. 16, 2024
Virtual MCAT Review
:
Jul. 8, 2024 –  Jul. 19, 2024
In-Person
:
Jul. 22, 2024 – Aug. 16, 2024
Move-in
: Sunday, Jul. 21, 2024
Move-Out
:
Saturday, Aug. 17, 2024
Important Dates
Application Opens:
Dec. 1, 2023
Application Closes:
Mar. 1, 2024 @ 11:59PM (PST)
Admission Notification:
Apr. 26, 2024
Pre Med Enrichment Program
Personal Development
Scholars will discuss mental health, imposter syndrome, and other critical topics to ensure they have the skills to thrive in medical school. Scholars participate in panels with medical professionals and PREP alumni discussing pathways to medical school, student life,
medical school curriculum
, and career paths. Scholars will strengthen their passion for medicine and find a community of peers to support them along their journey.
MCAT Bootcamp and Review
Scholars will participate in daily MCAT review sessions that cover the following topics: Critical Analysis and Reasoning Skills, Biological and Biochemical Foundations of Living Systems, General Chemistry, Organic Chemistry, Physics, and Psychological, Social, and Biological Foundations of Behavior. In these sessions, scholars will refresh their knowledge, develop strategies, and identify areas to focus on during their individual MCAT Preparation. In addition, scholars will take two full-length practice MCAT exams during the program to show their development over time. UCLA PREP is not a test preparation program and applicants are advised that independent study time is limited.
Focus on Health Disparities
Scholars develop statistical and analytical skills through working on a small group project related to describing and developing an understanding of the health issues and epidemiology of underserved communities. Scholars will then specify an underserved community and present a health intervention to ameliorate some of the community's health issues.
Academic Enrichment
Scholars will take part in workshops that encourage development of their time management, test taking skills, and note taking skills. Scholars will also participate in a problem-based learning (PBL) curriculum in which they will study clinical cases and develop an action plan to solve the clinical case. PBL will reinforce concepts of physical sciences (physics and general chemistry), biology, & organic chemistry lectures.
Ongoing Application Support
Admissions professionals will provide scholars with presentations to better understand
medical school requirements
so they can develop their plan for
medical school applications
. Scholars will participate in individual advisement sessions that will explore their motivations and intentions surrounding their career choice as well as strengthen their application planning. Beyond PREP, scholars will keep in touch with staff to check-in about their application plans and have a space to ask questions they may have.
Longitudinal Mentorship
During the program, scholars will be paired with a DGSOM Staff, Faculty, and Students who will serve as their mentor during the program. Scholars will maintain this mentor relationship beyond the 4-week program, to ensure the scholar as an ongoing support system.
Pre Med Enrichment Program Cost and Expenses
There is no tuition fee or application costs to participate in the program. Stipend and Housing (including meals) options will be available to our participants. The amount may vary depending on funding availability.
Program participant will be responsible for any travel and personal expense(s) incurred while attending the program.
Student Eligibility
Students are eligible for UCLA Pre Med Enrichment Program if they have not previously applied to medical school. Community college students, non-California residents, and post-baccalaureate students are eligible to apply.
Applicants must meet all of the following criteria:
Applicants must come from an educationally or economically disadvantaged background.
Applicants must be U.S citizens, hold a permanent residency or have documentation of approved eligibility for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) in the State of California
Minimum 2.8 Cumulative GPA
Applicants should have not taken the MCAT before July 15, 2024
Demonstrated interest in addressing issues affecting underserved populations in healthcare.
Compelling personal statement (PDF Format)
Pre Med Enrichment Program Application Process
Personal Statement Prompt: (To be uploaded with your application)
Please describe your personal, family, and community background; your motivation for medical career; what you have done to develop your interest and knowledge of modern medicine; and what you hope to accomplish by participation in UCLA PREP (minimum 1000 words, maximum 1500, PDF Format only).
PREP 2024 Application
Apply Now
All inquiries regarding the status of the application and receipt of supplemental documents must be directed to
UCLAPrep@mednet.ucla.edu
If you need additional support, our team will be available live via zoom during our Pre-Med and Pre-Health Drop-In Hours on Thursdays at 1:00pm-2:00pm PST. To sign up for these hours, please sign up below:
Pre-Med and Pre-Health Drop-In Hour
Campus Health and Safety Precautions
Summer 2023 Programs
In addition to UC’s
vaccination requirement
, the campus has implemented a number of health and safety protocols designed to keep the Bruin community safe this fall. For a full list of these protocols, see our UCLA
COVID protocols page
.
All students participating in
SHPEP
, PREP, and
RAP
are expected to comply with UC health and safety protocols to participate in our programs.
Please see current precautions, requirements, and information
for students
.
See student requirements
PREP Program FAQs
Is housing provided for PREP?
Pre Med Enrichment Program participants can choose to either receive a stipend at the end of the program or get pre-arranged housing (including meals). Housing arrangements will be a double-room occupancy shared with one other participant. Housing will be located at one of the UCLA Dorms.
Can I participate in PREP if I am a junior or senior in college?
Yes!
Can I participate in PREP more than once?
Students can only participate in the Pre Med Enrichment Program once.
How many students are accepted into the program each year?
A maximum of 40 students are accepted to participate every summer.
Will PREP help me prepare for the MCAT, or other standardized admissions tests
The Pre Med Enrichment Program's curriculum covers MCAT components and general test-taking skills.
Do I need to send in official transcripts?
There is no need to send official transcripts, unofficial transcripts are accepted during the application process.
If I applied to PREP last year, do I need to submit my transcripts again for PREP?
Yes, if you are reapplying to the Pre Med Enrichment Program, you must submit a new completed application with all necessary documents.
I've attended several colleges and all of my coursework appears on my transcript from my current college. Do I still need to send transcripts from all of my previous colleges?
Yes. An unofficial transcript is required from each U.S., U.S. territorial, and Canadian institution at which you have attempted coursework. PDF Format only
I am currently not enrolled in school, what document can I submit in lieu of the financial aid award letter for the current year?
An applicant may submit either last year’s form or complete the
FAFSA form
.
Pre-Health Office Hours and Guidance Appointments
Have questions? Connect over Zoom with our staff to learn about DGSOM medical tracks, pre-health summer programs, and postbacc programs.
Learn more
Office of Outreach and Pathway Programs
Location
: Geffen Hall, Suite 305
Main Number:
(310) 825-3575
Email:
UCLAPrep@mednet.ucla.edu
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Opportunities
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Guidance Center
Connect with Us
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login