RAP (Re-Application Program) | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
UCLA Re-Application Program
POST-BAC STUDENTS
We assist capable and dedicated students from disadvantaged backgrounds in preparing, re-applying, and gaining admission to medical school. RAP is a focused eleven-month academic enrichment program designed to prepare pre med students to gain admission to medical school in the United States.
Program Dates
September 1, 2024 - August 29, 2025
Important dates
Application Opens
- Jan. 4, 2024
Application Closes
- May 20, 2024 at 11:59 PM (PST)
Admission Notification
- Jun. 28, 2024
About UCLA RAP
Segment 1
The program begins with an initial three-month segment of focused prerequisite science review and MCAT preparation. Distinguished guest lecturers or KAPLAN/Princeton Review will provide seminars and workshops on topics including academic skills, biology, chemistry, and physics. Scholars will also advance their preparations through classroom instruction in self-development, time management, financial planning, medical school re-application, and interviewing skills provided by experienced faculty and staff. Current medical students and former RAP participants provide supportive mentoring and advising for RAP scholars.
Fall Quarter:
MCAT Test Prep
Learning and Test Taking Strategies
2 Science Courses
Apply to the Fee Assistance Program (FAP)
Winter Quarter:
Take the MCAT in January
3-4 Science Courses
Draft Personal and Disadvantage
Statements
Segment 2
Concurrently, the second segment of RAP provides an academic component focused on science curriculum through UCLA Extension and an application preparation component. In the academic component, participants, in close consultation with program advisors, will select courses based upon identified individual needs. In the application preparation component, scholars will prepare for medical school re-application through individual preparation and strategy sessions with an experienced advisor. Participants will further their application preparation by practicing interviewing skills through mock interviews conducted and videotaped for participant evaluation and feedback. Segment 2 extends the academic year and scholars will meet regularly with program advisors and mentors. Occasionally, the RAP program makes recommendations that will require more than 11 months to strengthen the participant’s application to medical school. In such cases, the participant’s progress will continue to be monitored after the 11-month program to ensure re-application preparation completion
Spring Quarter:
3-4 Science Courses
Participation in Clinical, Research, or Community based activity
Continue editing Personal and Disadvantage Statements
Draft Experience narratives
Summer Quarter:
Finalize Primary applications
Pre-write secondary responses
Interview Preparation
Submit Application
Program Cost
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Re-Application Program is made possible by funding from the University of California Academic Preparation and Educational Partnerships and the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA. There is no tuition or enrollment fee for participation, however, students are expected to provide for their own living expenses during the program, in addition to any tuition and/or fees for courses during the academic-year session. Tuition and fees must be paid by the student directly to the institution in which they enroll. Participants may be eligible for a stipend depending on the availability of funds
If required to take additional courses for academic enhancement, students will be taking classes through UCLA Extension. Tuition and fees for these courses will be paid directly through UCLA Extension. You can find more information here:
UCLA Extension - Student Services
Student Eligibility
Applicants must meet all of the following criteria:
Previously unsuccessful in gaining admission to a U.S medical school
Legal resident of California or provide documentation of approved eligibility for the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA) in the State of California
Committed to practice in an underserved community
Come from an educationally and/or economically disadvantaged background
Undergraduate degree from an accredited U.S college or university
Minimum cumulative undergraduate BCPM GPA of 2.7
No more than 140 total undergraduate BCPM credits taken
No more than one C- or below in a prerequisite course
MCAT scores from 2012-2014 or later must have a minimum combined score of 20
MCAT scores from 2015 must have a minimum combined score of 490
Application Requirements:
Official transcripts for every undergraduate institution attended
Personal statement
Verified AMCAS application(s) from all previous applications submitted
Three letters of recommendation
Letters should be from individuals who know the applicant well and have spent a significant time with them, e.g. PI or mentor. If your pre-health advisory office provides a committee letter, this letter will fulfill one letter requirement.
Application Process
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA Re-Application Program is a participant with the consortium of the University of California medical schools' postbaccalaureate programs online application service. To apply for the UCLA RAP Program and all UC postbaccalaureate programs, you must go to the website linked below to complete and send your application through the centralized application portal managed by UC Davis. The finalists will be granted an interview and notified of their acceptance.
RAP 2023 Application
Visit Application Website
All inquiries regarding the status of the application and receipt of supplemental documents must be directed to
Pbcentraladmin@ucdavis.edu
For more information on the UC Postbaccalaureate Consortium:
UC Postbaccalaureate Consortium
Campus Health and Safety Precautions
Summer 2023 Programs
In addition to UC’s
vaccination requirement
, the campus has implemented a number of health and safety protocols designed to keep the Bruin community safe this fall. For a full list of these protocols, see our UCLA
COVID protocols page
.
All students participating in
SHPEP
,
PREP
, and RAP are expected to comply with UC health and safety protocols to participate in our programs.
Please see current precautions, requirements, and information
for students
.
See student requirements
Pre-Health Office Hours and Guidance Appointments
Have questions? Connect over Zoom with our staff to learn about DGSOM medical tracks, pre-health summer programs, and postbacc programs.
Learn more
Office of Outreach and Pathway Programs
Location
: Geffen Hall, Suite 305
Main Number:
(310) 825-3575
Email:
uclarap@mednet.ucla.edu
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Opportunities
Pre-Med & Pre-Health Guidance Center
Connect with Us
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login