UIM Center of Excellence | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
UIM Center of Excellence
Our mission
The UCLA Underrepresented in Medicine – Center of Excellence (UIM-COE) works to increase the number of  health professionals from backgrounds underrepresented in the sciences. We also work to increase the number of faculty in academic medicine researching health disparities. We do this with the help and funding from the Health Resources & Services Administration (HRSA) and their Centers of Excellence grant program.
Our goals
Growing the pool of health professionals to create a diverse healthcare workforce
To increase the number of  health professionals in high-need rural areas serving historically marginalized communities, we aim to:
Provide support to community college and California State University students into our summer pathway programs and other rural-serving institutions to participate in pathway programs
Develop and implement longitudinal mentorship programs for students and faculty
Enhance a program for training, retention, career development, and advancement of faculty from backgrounds underrepresented in the sciences.
In doing so, we increase the pool necessary to create a socio-economically, racially, ethnically, and culturally diverse healthcare workforce.
Increasing the number of faculty researching health disparities
We are developing new knowledge, improving clinical education, and increasing cultural humility for health issues in traditionally marginalized communities. To accomplish this in our pathway programs and the school of medicine, we are:
Providing funding support for medical student and faculty research on health disparities
Developing and adapting performance psychology and psychosocial needs assessment tools for students to reduce burnout, provide safety nets, and address wellness
Increasing the faculty’s understanding of cultural humility and the structural determinants of health
In doing so, we increase the number of healthcare workers practicing cultural humility. We also reduce the impact of aversive racism and ingroup favoritism affecting the careers of students and faculty.
AAMCNEWS Applying to medical school can be daunting. Summer programs help prepare disadvantaged students
After the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling on race-conscious admissions, some summer pathway programs expanded to provide opportunities for students who are under-resourced. By Bridget Balch, Staff Writer Feb. 15, 2024
Dr. Gerardo Moreno elected to National Academy of Medicine
Brings to 43 the number of UCLA faculty to achieve one of the highest honors in the fields of health and medicine
October 09, 2023
1 min read
Read the full article
UCLA Pathway program that targets diversity in medicine turns 40
August 26, 2022
4 min read
Featured articles
Read all news articles
Dr. Gerardo Moreno elected to National Academy of Medicine
October 09, 2023
1 min read
UCLA Pathway program that targets diversity in medicine turns 40
August 26, 2022
4 min read
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login