Medical School | Researcher Resources | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Research Infrastructure
Your resources, when you need them
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA has a proud tradition of producing accomplished physician-scientists. Not only will you be given outstanding opportunities to contribute to scientific discovery, but you will also be exposed to our world-renowned faculty whose ever-evolving innovations and groundbreaking research inform scientific and medical thought around the globe.
UCLA has a robust system of reporting and support resources for those in need of guidance, counseling, or resolution services.
See confidential counseling, anonymous reporting, mental health support, and emergency services
.
Research Cores
Core Technology Centers
Affordable and independent instrumentation and services suited to your research.
Learn More about CTSI's Researcher Resources
Human Gene and Cell Therapy Facility (HGCTF)
Supports manufacturing of gene and cell therapy products for UCLA investigators as well as other academic and industry partners.
Read More About Research Cores
Statistical Consulting
Advice and resources to enable you to develop and/or extend your statistical computing skills, helping you to independently use common statistical packages for the analysis of research data.
Read more about statistical methods and data analytics
Administrative Support
General Resouces
See support resources including:
Policies and Procedures
Visa and Licensing Office
Office of Contract and Grant Administration
Extramural Fund Management (EFM)
Research Policy & Compliance.
These resources provide answers to your most pressing administrative needs, including information on policies and procedures, immigration assistance, contract guidance, financial reporting, and more.
Read more about the Administrative Support
DGIT Research Informatics Team
Supports manufacturing of gene and cell therapy products for UCLA investigators as well as other academic and industry partners.
Read more about the DGIT Research Informatics Team
CTSI Resources and Other Research Support
These support services, which touch on everything from study design to statistical analysis, bolster researcher endeavors at all levels, disciplines, and stages of completion.
Read more about research support
Research Safety
Helping researchers understand the regulatory and compliance requirements for research at UCLA and promoting open communication about and adoption of safe laboratory practices.
Learn more about research safety
Innovation for Actionable Outcomes
UCLA Health's Annual UCLA Health Innovation Challenge.
Learn more about the Innovation Challenge
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login