Themed Areas | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Themed Areas
21st-century science takes a village
The biomedical challenges of the 21st Century will be solved by scientific communities – networks of scientists with common interests but diverse skills and expertise.
In order to align our research enterprise with this scientific landscape, The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA has established six Research Themes to stimulate interaction between UCLA’s top scientists and clinicians. These outstanding researchers are dedicating their careers to the same problems but have historically had little interaction due to relics of 20th-century University organizational structure.
Under the umbrella of the Research Themes, UCLA scientists and clinicians are doing pioneering research for the benefit of humanity.
Explore the Research Theme Areas
The UCLA scientists and clinicians in these themes are expanding the boundaries of human knowledge and developing the next generation of treatments and cures in order to alleviate human suffering.
biotech
Cancer
Includes over 400 members conducting basic and translational research and clinicians who provide state-of-the-art cancer care.
favorite
Cardiovascular
The UCLA Cardiovascular Research Theme's mission is to pioneer innovation and discovery to prevent, detect and cure cardiovascular diseases.
group
HETSS
Born out of a joint mission of the UCLA Health System and DGSOM to collaboratively study and promote equitable health care.
coronavirus
I3T
70+ faculty members with the core mission of expanding our knowledge of immune regulation and developing novel disease therapies.
fitness_center
Metabolism
Aims to facilitate campus-wide interdisciplinary research in the field of metabolism involving basic, clinical and industry collaborations.
psychology
Neuroscience
The UCLA Neuroscience Theme is well-situated in both clinical and basic science departments to maximize interdisciplinary approaches to studying the brain.
science
Regenerative
Campus-wide collaboration of scientific, academic, and medical disciplines to understand the links between human development, aging, and repair.
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login