Med School | Why Choose UCLA | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Why Choose UCLA?
Feed your curiosity. Find your inspiration.
Expand your horizons in the city without limits.
Our home city of Los Angeles offers countless interests, experiences, and connections. Meet anyone, learn anything, and pursue any passion in the most colorful city in the world, a place people from all walks of life call home.
Feel the LA Love
No matter what interests you hold dear, you'll find something to love in Los Angeles.
It’s true when they say LA will spoil you in terms of weather and climate and just everything here.”
The food here is incredible. So many immigrant communities have blessed us with their cuisine.
If you were looking for me on any given weekend you’d probably find me at a concert venue.
Hospital and research centers are situated just across the street from one another.
UCLA affiliate sites and training locations are tailored to provide compassionate care to all.
Walk across the street to the botanical gardens to lose yourself when you need a breather.
A state-of-the-art medical education building, tailored to fit all of your learning needs.
Enjoy all the benefits of being a student, faculty, or staff with just a short walk to north campus.
Leader in providing equitable and inclusive health care to LGBTQ+ patients and families.
Feed your soul with a thriving arts district, countless museums, and murals that paint the city.
Vibrant Westside communities to explore, from Manhattan Beach to Malibu, and everything in between.
Access to hikes and expansive views in, or just outside of, the city for weekday or weekend adventures.
Virtual Tour Guides
Hear about life at UCLA from those already here and experiencing it in person.
Watch Now
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login