Grant supporting diversity of research teams awarded to Nursing faculty member | UCLA School of Nursing
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
Alumni
Students
Grant supporting diversity of research teams awarded to Nursing faculty member
December 21, 2023
1 min read
Dr. Rosario Jaime-Lara, PhD, RN
, assistant professor in the UCLA School of Nursing, is collaborating with a research team at the UCLA David Geffen School of Medicine led by
Dr. Arpana Gupta
, the principal investigator of an ongoing project exploring how the stressors of social isolation and discrimination are related to eating behaviors and dietary patterns in women of Mexican and Filipino Heritage.
As part of this two-year collaborative project, Dr. Jaime-Lara will be mentored by Dr. Gupta and will lead a study examining stressors and eating behavior from the perspectives of Mexican-American women. Dr. Jaime-Lara will also be mentored by
Dr. MarySue Heilemann
and
Dr. Lauren Clark
from the School of Nursing. This collaborative project has been funded by a grant from the
National Institute on Minority and Health Disparities
.
The two-year $250,000 diversity supplement, sponsored by the National Institutes of Health, is intended to improve diversity within the research workforce by supporting investigators from diverse backgrounds.
“As an early career investigator this grant offers mentorship, training, research time, and funding to build my program of research which focuses on the underlying biological mechanisms and socio-environmental factors influencing eating behavior, nutrition, and health in Latinx communities,” Jaime-Lara said.
According to its website, the National Institutes of Health (NIH) believes that new investigators are the innovators of the future who bring fresh ideas and technologies to existing biomedical research problems, and they pioneer new areas of investigation. NIMHD views the supplement program as an opportunity to contribute to the new investigator cohort.
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Related Articles
View all articles
UCLA Nursing alumna joins USC Keck School of Medicine Faculty Council
February 05, 2024
1 min read
Nursing professor elected to Native Research Network board
February 05, 2024
1 min read
Dr. Nancy Pike receives mentorship award from the Western Institute of Nursing
December 01, 2023
1 min read
Collaboration allows School of Nursing to receive supplies that would otherwise be discarded
November 08, 2023
2 min read
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Tiverton Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
sonsaff@sonnet.ucla.edu
Information
Faculty Directory
Nursing at UCLA Health
Useful Links
Current Student Website
SON Intranet
IT Support
SON Email
eValue Login
Getting Around
Campus Map
Parking Information
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login