Nursing students and faculty give back to the community | UCLA School of Nursing
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
Alumni
Students
Nursing students and faculty give back to the community
In partnership with UCLA Health, hundreds of Taste of Soul LA attendees received health screenings and nutritional education
November 07, 2023
By Paris Ortega
1 min read
UCLA School of Nursing students and faculty partnered with UCLA Health to volunteer at Taste of Soul LA. Volunteers took the opportunity to interface with the community and provide blood pressure and blood glucose screenings, as well as provide nutritional education.
Taste of Soul LA is a free family festival that takes place on our beloved Crenshaw Blvd. between Stocker Avenue and Barack Obama Blvd. The festival draws about 300,000+ attendees, the majority of whom are African American. This festival includes food and resources like health resources, job opportunities, education information, voter awareness, economic empowerment, and more.
This well-known and well-attended festival was an opportunity to work alongside the medical assistant students from UCLA extension and an interdisciplinary team of healthcare professionals.
"UCLA is committed to equity, diversity, and inclusion, which is why giving back is significant to the university,” said Dr. Cheryl LeHuquet, a project manager at UCLA Health who helps organize this and other opportunities for nursing students. “This volunteering experience made a positive impact on the community by being where the people are and serving the communities that come to UCLA.
More Photos Below:
Share:
Facebook
Twitter
LinkedIn
Related Articles
View all articles
UCLA Nursing alumna joins USC Keck School of Medicine Faculty Council
February 05, 2024
1 min read
Nursing professor elected to Native Research Network board
February 05, 2024
1 min read
Grant supporting diversity of research teams awarded to Nursing faculty member
December 21, 2023
1 min read
Dr. Nancy Pike receives mentorship award from the Western Institute of Nursing
December 01, 2023
1 min read
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
700 Tiverton Avenue
Los Angeles, CA 90095
sonsaff@sonnet.ucla.edu
Information
Faculty Directory
Nursing at UCLA Health
Useful Links
Current Student Website
SON Intranet
IT Support
SON Email
eValue Login
Getting Around
Campus Map
Parking Information
Campus Shuttles
Public Transit
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login