Setting up your PIC Linux/Email Account – UCLA Program in Computing
Linux account setup for Windows users with PuTTY:
Click on the icon on the desktop or start menu labeled “PuTTY”
Type in “laguna.pic.ucla.edu” in the field labeled “Host Name (or IP address)”
Click Open and click Yes to accept the signature
PuTTY Security Alert window might pop up (first run only)….. Click Yes
Type in “newuser” in the field labeled “login as”
Email bugs for newuser password.
Follow the instructions to set up your new password (BOL ID is what you used to login to windows). You can have a different password for your Windows and Linux accounts.
*Note* your password will NOT show up when you type it nor will the cursor move.
Also, if you want to backspace press CTRL-backspace.
The PuTTY window will automatically close upon completion of the account
Linux account setup for Mac/Linux users with Terminal:
Open up the “Terminal” app.
Type in “ssh newuser@laguna.pic.ucla.edu”
Email bugs for newuser password.
Follow the instructions to set up your new password (BOL ID is what you used to login to windows). You can have a different password for your Windows and Linux accounts.
*Note* your password will NOT show up when you type it nor will the cursor move.
Also, if you want to backspace press CTRL-backspace.
Forwarding All Future Email:
Click on the PuTTY icon.
Type in “laguna” in the field labeled “Host Name (or IP address)”
Login using the username and password you have just setup
Type echo youremail@address.com > .forward at the command prompt e.g. If wanted your email forwarded to the email address joebruin@ucla.edu, you would type the following:
echo joebruin@ucla.edu > .forward
You can verify the file is correct by typing: cat .forward
Log off Linux by typing “exit”
Optional (Checking Email):
Click on the icon on the desktop labeled PuTTY
Type in “laguna” in the field labeled Host Name (or IP address) and click open.
Type in your user name for login as: username
Type in your Linux password and press enter.
*the cursor will not move and your password or characters won’t show*
Type pine at the terminal to open up the email client
Press e to exit from the greeting (for first run only)
Press i to view messages in your inbox.
Use the arrow keys to highlight the message and press to open the message.
Press f to forward the message
Type your email address in the “To” field (which should already be selected)
Press CTRL-X to send the message, and press ‘Y’ to confirm that you would like to send.
Press ‘Q’ to exit and press ‘Y’ to confirm that you would like to exit.
Pages
About the Lab
About the Program
Frequently Asked Questions
How to post to the PIC Lab Reservation Calendar
Setting up your PIC Linux/Email Account
Getting Started with Microsoft Visual Studio 2019
How to Use the Debugger
How to log in to your PIC account
MS Imagine
PIC Lab Reservations Calendar
Remote Access
Splashtop FAQ
2300 Murphy Hall - Box 951438 - Los Angeles, CA 90095-1438 © 2018
Scroll to top