Departmental Events | Events Office
Skip to Main Content
Events Office
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Plan an Event
Departmental Events
What We Do
The Events Office schedules many
indoor
and
outdoor
locations where departments can hold their events. To be considered a departmental event, the event must meet the following criteria:
1. The person that is booking and coordinating the event with the Events Office must be UCLA staff or faculty affiliated with that department
2. The event must be authorized by the department’s Dean, Director, or Department Chair and be related to the department’s field of study or business operations
3. The department assumes financial responsibility for event charges and insurance liability for the event on behalf of the Regents of the University of California.
The process for scheduling and coordinating events at indoor and outdoor locations that the Events Office manages can be found below.
Departments will need to coordinate some event aspects on their own or
with other departments
.
Scheduling Events in General Assignment Classrooms
To book a
general assignment classroom
, email the Events Office
Scheduling Coordinator
with your request.
•  Email request must include the room, date, times needed (including set up and breakdown), name and description of the event.
•  Once the room(s) are scheduled, an
Events OnLine (EOL)
application will need to be filled out in order to register the event with the university.
•  If booking 10 or more rooms, there will be a non-refundable scheduling fee that must be paid in order to reserve the rooms. A recharge account will need to be provided to the Events Office to charge the applicable scheduling fee.
•  If only booking a general assignment classroom, no Events Office Event Manager is required to manage the event (coordination assistance is always available if requested). The organizing department is responsible for placing all service orders needed for the event (e.g. Facilities building/room opening request, AV services).
Scheduling an Outdoor Location or Multi-Venue Event
To book one of the
outdoor locations
including
spaces for academic use
, email the Events Office
Scheduling Coordinator
with your request.
•  Email request must include outdoor location and general assignment classroom(s) (if needed), date, times each location or room is needed (including set up and breakdown), name and description of the event.
•  There is a $70 nonrefundable scheduling fee charged per outdoor location reserved per day. Also if booking 10 or more rooms there will be an additional non-refundable scheduling fee. A recharge account must be provided to the Events Office to charge the applicable scheduling fees and confirm the reservations.
•  Once the room and outdoor locations are scheduled, an
Events OnLine (EOL)
application will need to be filled out in order to register the event with the university.
•  The UCLA Events Office will assess the scope of all departmental events that involve the use of an outdoor location to determine if an Events Office Event Manager is needed to manage the event.
Management of Departmental Events by an Event Manager
Assessment of the need for an Events Office Event Manager to coordinate services will be based on the scope of the event. The Events Office maintains first right of refusal to coordinate most aspects of events held in the campus locations the Events Office schedules.
If an Event Manager is necessary, they will order services needed for the event and secure all campus approvals, including layout approval from the campus fire marshal. Events Office management services can include:
•  Event Manager prep hours (time spent coordinating the event, designing layouts, ordering services, getting approvals, etc.) at $75 per hr.
•  Event Manager on-site hours (if determined to be necessary) at $75 per hr.
•  Event Manager audit hours (time spent reconciling billed services with the accounting department) at $75 per hr.
•  Facilities Management services (e.g. building/room openings, sprinkler shut off, delivery of trash receptacles and dumpsters, electrical order, building custodial services, etc.).
•  AV services (if needed)
•  Event equipment rentals (if requested by the department or required by the fire marshal)
•  Contract custodians for the outdoor location (if required by the Events Office)
•  Contract security (if requested by the department or required by the Events Office or UCPD)
•  Parking arrangements (if needed)
•  Programming Fee - 10% of the cost of all services ordered. The departmental programming fee supports student events and campus scheduling operations.
The assigned Event Manager will provide the departmental coordinator a written estimate of all event costs prior to the event, and the departmental coordinator must provide a recharge account that will be used for payment of the estimated event charges. Generally 3-4 weeks after the event takes place, a final invoice will be issued and at that time the recharge account will be charged that amount.
555 Westwood Plaza, Suite 100
Los Angeles, CA 90095
(310) 825-8989
events@ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use