UCLA Events Online (EOL) | Events Office
Skip to Main Content
Events Office
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Plan An Event
UCLA Events Online (EOL)
What is UCLA Events Online (EOL)?
UCLA Events Online (EOL) is a Web intranet system used to confirm venue reservations, assist the event organizer with following policies and procedures, facilitates communication between campus units involved in coordinating events and populates events on University calendars.
UCLA Policy 860 requires that all campus events must be registered with the University through EOL.
How Do You Use UCLA Events Online?
When you reserve a space for your event, the venue scheduler will email you an EOL registration form to confirm your reservation. Note: only the venue scheduler can start an EOL.
As you complete the form you will be asked to provide detailed information about your event and you can read links to concise event policy summaries (e.g. serving alcohol, charging admission, promoting event).
What happens after you complete the EOL application and hit the submit button?
You will receive a “To Do” list on your screen, customized for your event. Follow the instructions on how to order audio-visual equipment, parking, room openings, etc.
Your EOL will be reviewed by campus service providers. Keep watching your email inbox. Service providers such as the Fire Marshal or the Special Events Parking Coordinator may email you with more instructions.
Once your department’s signatory or staff advisor has completed the electronic authorization, you will receive an email indicating that your venue reservation is confirmed and your event is officially registered with the University.
What happens to the event information on your EOL?
Your event is automatically listed on the internal Campus Operations Calendar (password protected) to assist UCLA staff in planning University operations.
At your request, your event will be listed on the UCLA Happenings Events Calendar at happenings.ucla.edu.
Your event will automatically be listed on the Campus Emergency Database, a critical resource used by Emergency Response Personnel.
UCLA Events Online System Administrator
Email:
events@ucla.edu
| Phone: (310) 82
5-8989
Related Links
UCLA Policy 860
Steps to a Successful Event
555 Westwood Plaza, Suite 100
Los Angeles, CA 90095
(310) 825-8989
events@ucla.edu
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use