Human Resources | sonnet
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Search
Human Resources
Welcome to the UCLA School of Nursing Human Resources Office (HR). The HR Office serves School of Nursing (SON) staff, faculty and student employees in human resources and payroll related functions. We serve as an information resource and also as liaison for benefits-related questions, employment, recruitment and hiring policies and procedures, leaves of absence and other appropriate related to the broad human resources umbrella.
Below are a few quick links that may help you find what you‘re looking for.
For further assistance, please contact the SON HR office.
Benefits
As a UC employee, you'll enjoy a competitive benefits package, including comprehensive health and welfare insurance plans protecting you and your family, generous leave provisions, an attractive pension plan and optional retirement savings opportunities.
Affordable Care Act notification (FOR NEW HIRES ONLY)
Online Benefits Orientation (UCnet)
Making Benefit Changes
Requesting a Leave of Absence
University of California Retirement Plan (UCRP)
Retirement Handbook
UC Retirement Savings Program (Fidelity)
Policies and Procedures
Personnel Policies for Staff Members
- Personnel policies pertaining to Managers and Supervisors (MSP) and Professional and Support Staff (PSS)
Collective Bargaining Agreements
- Links to systemwide and local collective bargaining agreements
Academic Personnel Policies
- An electronic version of the Academic Personnel Manual (APM), which includes policies and procedures pertaining to the employment relationship between an academic appointee and the University of California
The UCLA CALL
- A summary of Academic Personnel Policies and Procedures
Payroll and Time-Reporting
Understanding your Earnings Statement
- Please review your earnings statement on a regular basis.
Biweekly Benefits Deduction Schedule 2014
Tax Table - California State Income 2014
Tax Table - Federal Income 2014
The Federal Insurance Contribution Act (FICA) provides a system of Social Security and Medicare benefits financed through taxes on employers and employees. FICA taxes and benefits consist of two parts: Social Security or Old Age Survivors, and Disability Insurance (OASDI), and Hospital Insurance for senior citizens and the disabled also known as Medicare. The amounts deducted are set Annually by the Social Security Administration (SSA). OASDI is currently 4.2% of Taxable Gross and Medicare is 1.45% of Taxable Gross. Each year the SSA set limits on the Taxable Gross amount to be taxed for OASDI. Additional information is available from the
Social Security Administration
.
Time Reporting System (TRS) Resources and Log-In
(For Staff Employees)
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login