4th Year Clerkship | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
4th Year Clerkship
Our clerkship in emergency medicine at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center and the Olive View-UCLA Medical Center is four weeks long and structured to allow students to have a truly diverse clinical experience at a both an academic tertiary care medical center and a busy county hospital. Students will spend half of the rotation at each site seeing all types of patients with emergency conditions supervised by our EM residents and faculty. For guidance throughout this process, students will be paired with EM physicians during each shift including dedicated senior teaching residents on many shifts.
In addition to an outstanding clinical experience, students will benefit from didactic lectures and case conferences, practicing in our state-of-the-art simulation laboratory, receive ultrasound teaching, and four to five hours of weekly Emergency Medicine Residency Conference. Students who are considering emergency medicine as a specialty will be offered a resident “big sib” as well the opportunity to meet with residency faculty. Students will receive a comprehensive orientation packet in advance of the rotation, as well as the date and time of in-person orientation.
For a course description, please click
here
Our course number is EM320.01
Apply to the Clerkship
This popular UCLA elective tends to fill, especially during July to December, when emergency medicine bound students wish to have the UCLA Ronald Reagan/Olive View Emergency Medicine experience. Therefore, summer blocks are reserved for students planning a career in EM. We encourage non-UCLA students to submit their application as soon as possible after this opening date. Our standard rotation length is 4-weeks, however, we will consider 3-week rotations on a case by case basis.
Visiting US Medical Students for the 2024-25 Academic Year
: For the 2024-25 academic year, away rotations resume no earlier than June 24, 2024, with the following application dates:
Once VSLO opens their application in March,
eligible students may begin applying for in-person away rotations with a
start date of June 24th or later. Please be aware we do not accept visiting students from January to April, plan accordingly if you wish to complete your rotation with us.
Students with home rotations in Emergency Medicine are still eligible to apply.
The David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA uses the AAMC Visiting Student Learning Opportunities (VSLO) for US medical students. In addition to the standard VSLO application, please submit a brief letter of intent to our Clerkship Coordinator, explaining your interest in the rotation, and career plans. This letter can be informal and does not have to be on letterhead, etc. Please limit the brief letter to 250 words.
Visiting Students
Interested in applying to our 4th Year Clerkship and need financial assistance? We offer a Visiting Elective Diversity Scholarship to fourth-year U.S. medical students whom are interested in completing our UCLA Emergency Medicine Sub-Internship (EM 320.01) and want to help foster workforce diversity in healthcare professions. For more information regarding eligibility, the application process and deadlines about our scholarship please click
here
.
For application information, please click
here
If you have any questions, please contact Clerkship Coordinator, Nathalia Rodriguez, at
nathaliaerodriguez@mednet.ucla.edu.
Stephen Villa, MD
Clerkship Director
SEVilla@mednet.ucla.edu
Max Berger, MD
Assistant Clerkship Director
MRBerger@mednet.ucla.edu
Tomer Begaz, MD
Associate Clerkship Director
Olive View Site Director
TBegaz@mednet.ucla.edu
Nathalia Rodriguez
Medical Student & Fellowship Coordinator
(310) 267-5642
nathaliaerodriguez@mednet.ucla.edu
Shiromi Perera
Medical Student Coordinator
(747) 210-3107
shperera@dhs.lacounty.gov
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health