Visiting Elective Diversity Scholarship | UCLA Emergency Medicine
Skip to main content
Visiting Elective Diversity Scholarship
The UCLA Department of Emergency Medicine recognizes the importance of having a diverse workforce that reflects the patient population we serve, provides culturally sensitive care, and addresses healthcare disparities. The UCLA Emergency Medicine Visiting Elective Diversity Scholarship Program is intended to provide financial support to fourth-year U.S. medical students with an interest in fostering workforce diversity in healthcare professions and in completing a UCLA Emergency Medicine Sub-Internship (EM 320.01). The goal of the program is to promote student interest in applying to the UCLA Ronald Reagan/Olive View Emergency Medicine Residency Program by exposing these students to our dynamic clinical and academic environment
.
Eligibility: All students with a commitment to efforts fostering workforce diversity in healthcare professions are encouraged to apply, in particular, those coming from groups that are underrepresented in medicine (UIM)
.
Our clinical emergency medicine clerkship at UCLA includes experience at both our university medical center (Ronald Reagan UCLA) and our county hospital (Olive View-UCLA). We offer a 4-week rotation for qualified fourth year medical students interested in pursuing a career in emergency medicine
.
Our clerkship provides candidates with an excellent clinical experience at a world-renowned academic medical center and a busy county hospital. It is a challenging and fun rotation with clinical shifts at two sites. Candidates will have the opportunity to be the primary provider for acutely ill patients, to actively participate in traumas and resuscitations at our level 1 trauma center, to perform a variety of procedures, and to attend weekly didactic conferences
.
Who should apply?
Applicants must:
Be a fourth year medical student
Plan to match into Emergency Medicine
Be in good academic standing at an accredited US medical school
Meet all standard VSLO application requirements for the EM320.01 elective
Be able to rotate at UCLA between June 2023 - September 2023
Application Deadline:
Deadline to apply is
April 1st, 2023
.
Application materials are required on VSLO at least
60 days
prior to the desired rotation start dates.
Application Process:
Please review UCLA eligibility requirements
here
. If you can submit all required documents, then please send your CV, unofficial transcripts, step scores, indicate which months you would like to rotate, and write a 1 paragraph personal essay indicating why you are applying for this scholarship (300 words or less). Please send via email to Clerkship Coordinator, Nathalia Rodriguez, at
nathaliaerodriguez@mednet.ucla.edu
If accepted, you must complete the VSLO application for the UCLA Ronald Reagan/Olive View Emergency Medicine Clerkship.
The scholarship of $2,500 is a reimbursement intended to defray travel expenses such as transportation and lodging. Scholarship funds will be awarded after submission of appropriate receipts
.
Participation in this program guarantees an interview for our residency program, but does not guarantee a position
.
Questions?
If you have any questions, please contact Clerkship Coordinator, Nathalia Rodriguez, at
nathaliaerodriguez@mednet.ucla.edu
UCLA Emergency Medicine
1100 Glendon Avenue, Suite 1200
Los Angeles, California 90024
© 2024
Department of Emergency Medicine
|
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
|
UCLA Health