Alumni Helen and Morgan Chu pledge $10 million to benefit UCLA Institute of American Cultures | UCLA
Skip to main content
UCLA
Newsroom
Toggle menu
UCLA
Search Newsroom
Submit search
Close search
Nation, World + Society
Alumni Helen and Morgan Chu pledge $10 million to benefit UCLA Institute of American Cultures
The couple’s gift will strengthen ethnic studies at UCLA and advance research in support of social justice
UCLA Photography
Donors Helen and Morgan Chu’s connection to ethnic studies at UCLA dates back to their days as undergraduate activists in the 1960s. Pictured: Morgan Chu at the center of a group of students marching up Bruin Walk.
Ben Stephens  |
February 5, 2024
Key takeaways
Longtime donors to UCLA, the Chus participated in student-led protests in the 1960s that brought about the creation of UCLA’s ethnic studies centers.
Their latest gift is intended to create four endowed chairs and provide wider support for the work of the UCLA Institute of American Cultures.
The funding will help the campus remain a leader at a critical time for research and programs related to race and ethnic studies and Native and Indigenous studies.
Helen and Morgan Chu, whose student activism in the late 1960s helped launch UCLA’s ethnic studies centers, have pledged $10 million to the UCLA Institute of American Cultures, the largest gift ever made to the institute.
The Chus have been longtime supporters of the university that brought them together more than five decades ago. Their previous philanthropy led to the creation of the Morgan and Helen Chu Chair in Asian American Studies, the Helen and Morgan Chu Director’s Chair of the Asian American Studies Center and the Morgan & Helen Chu Scholarship Fund for undergraduate students.
The
Institute of American Cultures
was founded in 1969 to serve as the central hub of the university’s four ethnic studies centers, which are dedicated to research, community-based partnerships and civic engagement that advances social and racial justice. Through these efforts — and through events, conferences, grants, fellowships and scholarships — the centers, their students and affiliated faculty members are helping to shape social and cultural realities in the U.S. and beyond.
“We are honored and humbled by Helen and Morgan Chu
’
s remarkable gift, which will advance UCLA
’
s scholarship and teaching related to human identities and some of the most pressing issues of our time,” said UCLA Chancellor Gene Block. “UCLA has long been at the forefront of the examination of the histories, cultures, contributions and experiences of different racial and ethnic groups in the United States, and the Chus’ investment will allow us to deepen the impact of this essential work.”
The Chus’ gift is intended to endow an academic chair at the
Asian American Studies Center
and three directors’ chairs — at the
American Indian Studies Center,
the
Chicano Studies Research Center
and the
Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies.
A portion of the gift will also fund research projects and programming across the institute that will benefit faculty, students and other stakeholders.
The investments UCLA will make thanks to the Chus’ gift are aligned with the university
’
s commitment to
inclusive excellence
and engaged scholarship, including its
Rising to the Challenge
and
Native American and Pacific Islander Bruins Rising
initiatives. In addition, UCLA is currently pursuing official federal designations as a
Hispanic-Serving Institution
and an
Asian American and Native American Pacific Islander–Serving Institution.
The Chus: Bridging the gulfs that separate people
During their time as undergraduates, the couple were part of the multiracial coalition of student leaders whose dedicated activism and advocacy ultimately led to the founding of UCLA
’
s ethnic studies centers in 1969 — a moment that established UCLA as a pioneer in the field.
Helen Chu earned her bachelor’s degree from UCLA and went on to a long career as a public school teacher. Morgan Chu earned bachelor’s, master’s and doctoral degrees from UCLA before earning a master’s degree from Yale University and a juris doctorate from Harvard Law School. A specialist in intellectual property, he is one of the nation’s preeminent trial lawyers.
Karen Umemoto/UCLA Asian American Studies Center
With their continued support of the UCLA Institute of American Cultures, Helen (right) and Morgan Chu aim to ensure that UCLA remains at the vanguard of ethnic studies.
Through the years, the Chus have remained committed to the ethnic studies centers’ foundational mission of uplifting and fostering understanding of communities of color through scholarship and social impact work, which today has become increasingly collaborative and interdisciplinary — through intercenter efforts like an ethnic studies curriculum initiative and training program for K–12 educators — as well as international and transnational in its scope.
“Over the course of 50 years, ethnic studies at UCLA has grown from a handful of faculty positions to numbering hundreds of affiliated faculty across all fields,” said David Yoo, vice provost of the institute and a professor of Asian American studies and history at UCLA. “This important gift from Helen and Morgan Chu will provide our faculty, students and community partners with sustainable support as they produce the knowledge we need in order to envision and build a more just and equitable society and world.”
“Morgan and I believe that the gulfs that persist in separating people can be bridged through study and research but also through conversation and, ultimately, mutual understanding,” Helen Chu said. “We are proud to make a gift that will help the faculty, students and staff associated with the UCLA Institute of American Cultures to advance social justice causes in the decades to come.”
Helen Chu is a lifetime member of Women and Philanthropy at UCLA. Morgan Chu has served on The UCLA Foundation Board of Governors and has been a lecturer and commencement speaker at UCLA School of Law. He received the UCLA Medal, the university’s highest honor, in 2007.
“At this important juncture for ethnic studies in American higher education, our purpose with this gift is nothing less than bolstering rigorous scholarship in these fields at UCLA,” Morgan Chu said. “We chose to make our gift here because of UCLA
’
s ability to have a meaningful impact and because the institution has meant so much to us throughout our academic and personal lives.”
Tags:
gifts
|
university news
|
faculty news
|
students
|
staff news
|
social justice
|
race and ethnicity
Share
LinkedIn
Facebook
Twitter
Research that shapes realities
UCLA’s ethnic studies centers conduct a wide array of research, advocacy, education and community engagement projects. Here is a sampling of some of their recent efforts.
American Indian Studies Center:
A partnership with the Fowler Museum at UCLA,
Carrying Our Ancestors Home
focuses on the repatriation of Native ancestral remains and cultural items held in museums and other institutions, with guidance from Native cultural practitioners, tribal members, museum professionals and academics.
Asian American Studies Center:
The center is currently developing “Foundations and Futures,” a
multimedia, open-access textbook
featuring 50 chapters and 250 lesson plans to bring the experiences, histories, struggles, cultures and contributions of Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders into the curriculum of every high school and college classroom across the U.S.
Ralph J. Bunche Center for African American Studies:
This fall, the center welcomed its fifth and largest
Bunche Fellows Program
cohort, connecting a community of 40 undergraduate and graduate students with 20 faculty-led research projects on a range of scholarly topics related to Black life in the U.S. and internationally.
Chicano Studies Research Center:
In collaboration with UCLA’s Latino Policy and Politics Institute, the center recently launched the
Latina Futures, 2050 Lab,
which aims to accelerate equity and inclusion for Latinas through rigorous research, community partnerships and leadership development.
Media Contact
Barbra Ramos
310-844-3582
bramos@stratcomm.ucla.edu
Top UCLA News
University News
UCLA to transform empty Westside Pavilion mall into UCLA Research Park
Arts + Culture
NSF invests in UCLA-led project to connect culture, creativity and technological innovation
Arts + Culture
Watch: ‘L.A. Stories,’ UCLA Library’s new video series
Stay Connected
Sign up for a daily briefing
Get top research & news headlines four days a week.
(Check your inbox or spam filter for confirmation.)
Email
Subscribe to a UCLA Newsroom RSS feed and our story headlines will be automatically delivered to your news reader.
All RSS Feeds
UCLA on Twitter
UCLA on Facebook
UCLA on LinkedIn
@UCLA on Instagram
UCLA on YouTube
UCLA
Newsroom
UCLA on Twitter
UCLA on Facebook
UCLA on LinkedIn
@UCLA on Instagram
UCLA on YouTube
Categories
All content
Arts + culture
Environment + climate
Faculty + staff
Health + behavior
Nation, world + society
Science + technology
Students + campus
University news
UCLA in the community
UCLA Magazine
Campus statements
Election 2024
For news media
Media contacts at UCLA
Media advisories
News releases
Images
About UCLA: Fast facts
Media guide to faculty experts
Journalist guide to UCLA
UCLA on Twitter
Media Relations staff
UCLA Broadcast Studio
Newsletter sign-up
UCLA Sites
Happenings
Athletics
Extension
Health
Giving
COVID-19 Resources
UCLA
Directory
Calendar
Maps
Parking
Careers
Facebook
Twitter
Instagram
Snapchat
LinkedIn
YouTube
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Terms of Use
Accessibility
Emergency