Center for Civil Rights Remedies — The Civil Rights Project at UCLA
Personal tools
Skip to content.
|
Skip to navigation
Search Site
only in current section
Advanced Search…
Sections
Home
News
Events
Research
Legal Developments
Resources
About Us
NavCCRR
Racial Inequity in Special Education
Resources
School-to-Prison Pipeline
Staff
You
are here:
Home
→
Resources
→
Projects
→
Center for Civil Rights Remedies
Info
Center for Civil Rights Remedies
The Center for Civil Rights Remedies is an initiative that began in the summer of 2011. The CCRR's special projects, on the School-to-Prison Pipeline and Racial Inequity in Special Eduction, are supported with grants and contract funding, and carried out under the auspices of the Civil Rights Project and in collaboration with several partner organizations.
Use the NAVIGATION BAR AT THE LEFT to view recent reports and resources
Mission:
The Civil Rights Project’s Center for Civil Rights Remedies (CCRR) is
 dedicated to improving educational opportunities and outcomes for 
children from subgroups who have been discriminated against historically
 due to their race/ethnicity, and who are frequently subjected to 
exclusionary practices such as disciplinary removal, over-representation
 in special education, and reduced access to a college-bound curriculum
What we do:
The Center conducts new research to identify problems or issues with educational policy or it's implementation, takes direct action 
to improve policy, and enhances the capacity of advocates to press for 
successful remedies at the local, state and federal levels. We develop 
research-based remedies relevant to policymakers and educators, models 
for federal and state legislation, requests for administrative action, 
and supports to civil rights groups, state agencies and local 
educational organizations actively engaged in the remedy process.
The Center
provides ongoing empirical analysis and annual reporting
at the 
federal, state and district levels to demonstrate the size and relevance
 of the problem and to equip agents of change with the data tools they 
need to put in place and then monitor effective remedies. We facilitate 
the use of data by those preparing for, or engaged in, meaningful 
actions to replace harsh and ineffective disciplinary policies and 
practices with approaches that are effective for children, schools and 
their communities.
The Center provides resources for:
Advocates
at all levels including those seeking direct 
action from local school boards, filing administrative complaints or 
lawsuits, or seeking reform through legislation.
School administrators
(local and/or state) collaborating with community groups and/or state and federal administrative agencies.
Legislators and policymakers
seeking systemic reforms to improve educational opportunities and outcomes.
Members of the Media
seeking data and research sources to better understand and report on racial inequalities in the focus areas
Listen
: CCRR's Director Dan Losen and Assistant Superintendent Andre Denson talk about efforts to reduce racial disparities in discipline in a Nevada school district in a Nevada Public Radio piece that asks "
Why Does Clark County Have High Rates Of Expulsion Among Minorities
?"
Document Actions
Print this
The Civil Rights Project / Proyecto Derechos Civiles
8370 Math Sciences, Box 951521
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1521
crp@ucla.edu
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Accessibility
Site Map
Log in
Copyright © 2010 UC Regents