Campus Resources | CEED
Select Page
Search for:
X
UCLA Campus Resources
Current CAPS Services Hours:
(Located at
John Wooden Center West)
– Monday, Tuesday, Thursday:
8:00 am – 5:30 pm
– Wednesday:
9:00 am – 5:30 pm
(By Appointment Only
after 4 pm)
– Friday:
8:00 am – 5:00 pm
(By Appointment after 3pm)
– Crisis counseling available by phone
24 hours a day, 7 days a week:
(310) 825-0768
– To make an appointment call (310) 825-0768 between 9:00 am – 4:00 pm Mondays – Thursdays and 9:00 am –
3:00 pm on Fridays
Resource Programs
OASA Office
The Office of Academic and Student Affairs (OASA)
provides academic advising and counseling for engineering undergraduate students.
Counseling and advising services include guidance with
policies and procedures
, advice on
curriculum requirements
, identification of
resources for tutoring and study skill improvement
, and the review of
petitions
.
–
Get help with
: Changing Majors; Class enrollment & add/drop deadlines; Academic Holds; Withdrawing; Major Requirements; Scholarships; Transfer Credit and much more
– Contact info:
(310) 825-9580
– For more info go to:
https://www.seasoasa.ucla.edu/
The BruinHub
The BruinHub, a space serving UCLA students facing long commutes or housing insecurity, is located at the heart of campus in the John Wooden Center. It is a 24/7 space with facilities for students to nap, stay overnight, study, store belongings, and wait out traffic.
– Contact the JWC at: (310)-206-8307
WE@UCLA
WE@UCLA promotes an environment that enhances the personal and professional development of women, provides opportunities and resources to develop self-efficacy and leadership skills, and facilitates a rewarding career path after graduation.
– Contact info: we@hsseas.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://samueli.ucla.edu/women-in-engineering/
LGBTQ Center
We provide a comprehensive range of education and advocacy services supporting intersectional identity development as well as fostering unity, wellness, and an open, safe, and inclusive environment for UCLA’s LGBTQ community.
– Contact info: (310) 206-3628 or lgbt@lgbtq.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://lgbtq.ucla.edu/
Economic Crisis Response Team (ECRT)
The Economic Crisis Response Team (ECRT) is a multidisciplinary group of campus partners dedicated to supporting UCLA students experiencing a financial crisis that impacts their well being and academic success at UCLA.
We provide enrolled UCLA students, in crisis, support with: Emergency Short Term Loans,
Emergency Grant and Basic Needs Grants,
Emergency Meals,
Emergency Housing,
Case management support with navigating campus resources
– Contact info:
310-206-1189 or
ecr@saonet.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://studentincrisis.ucla.edu/
CAPS
Counseling and Psychological Services
(CAPS) supports your mental health needs as you pursue your academic goals. Their services are designed to foster the development of healthy well-being necessary for success in a complex global environment.
– Contact info:
(310) 825-0768 or info@caps.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://counseling.ucla.edu/
UCLA Basic Needs
UCLA Basic Needs aims to eliminate student hunger and homelessness. We believe every student should not have to sacrifice their health and nutrition in pursuit of their degree.
– Contact info: basicneeds@cpo.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://basicneeds.ucla.edu/
First To Go
First To Go promotes campus involvement and visibility with a focus on the retention and success of all first-generation college students at UCLA. We are here to serve as a resource hub to assist current UCLA undergraduate students as they navigate the campus and provide support in building community.
– Contact info: firsttogo@orl.ucla.edu or
(310) 983-3022
– For more info go to:
https://firsttogo.ucla.edu/
Dashew  Center
The Dashew Center functions as the central hub to provide international students, scholars, and their departments with visa services, resources, support and advocacy on campus. At the center of its mission, the Dashew Center aims to serve the entire UCLA community by promoting the values of creating
global connection, international understanding and cultural sensitivity.
– Contact info:
(310) 825-1681
(voicemail only)
or oissassi@saonet.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://internationalcenter.ucla.edu/
RISE Center
The RISE (Resilience In Your Student Experience) Center, is an affiliate program and physical extension of UCLA’s Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS). The RISE Center is a holistic wellness hub that provides an array of programs, classes, trainings, and self-directed resources to foster and support resilience, connection, and well-being for our UCLA community.
– Contact info:
(310) 825-9039 or rise@caps.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://risecenter.ucla.edu/
Title IX Office
Title IX prohibits sex or gender discrimination in any education program or activity receiving federal financial assistance. The Title IX Office receives reports of gender discrimination, including allegations of sexual harassment and sexual violence.
– Contact info:
(310) 206-3417 or titleix@equity.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://sexualharassment.ucla.edu/
Black Bruin Resource Center
The Black Bruin Resource Center, also referred to as the BBRC or The Center, will create programs and activities that facilitate recruiting a more diverse student body, retention efforts such as academic guidance and matriculation to graduation, graduate, and professional school.
– Contact info: (
310) 206-9255
or bbrc@saonet.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://blackbruinresourcecenter.ucla.edu/
Center for Accessible Education
T
he Center for Accessible Education serves as a central resource on disability-related information for students, procedures, and services for the University student community. The Center for Accessible Education provides expertise in determining and implementing appropriate and reasonable accommodations for academics and housing.
– Contact info:
(310) 825-1501
or caeintake@saonet.ucla.edu
– For more info go to:
https://cae.ucla.edu/
LinkedIn
Donate to CEED
Facebook
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA