Scholarships | CEED
Select Page
Search for:
X
Scholarships
SME Education Foundation Scholarships
With more than 60 distinct scholarship programs, the Foundation provides merit and need-based scholarships, issues renewing and one-time awards, and seeks applications from all eligible students, including but not limited to young women and underrepresented communities.
Scholarship applications are accepted annually from
November 1 – February 1
. By submitting one application, you will be considered for every scholarship for which you are eligible. Awards range from $2,500 – $20,000.
For more details visit:
SME Scholarships
Hispanic Scholarship Fund (HSF)
Every year, HSF selects 10,000 outstanding students as HSF Scholars from a broad and talented pool of applicants
As an HSF Scholar, you will have access to HSF’s invaluable Scholar Support Services and be eligible to receive a scholarship, depending on available funds.
Must be of Hispanic heritage.
U.S. citizen, permanent legal resident, or DACA.
Minimum of 3.0 GPA on a 4.0 scale (or equivalent) for high school students; minimum of 2.5 GPA on a 4.0 scale (or equivalent) for college and graduate students
Awards range from $500 to $5,000 and access to the
STEM Summit
Phase 1 Application Deadline:
Feb. 15, 2024
For more details visit:
HSF
Best Colleges Scholarship For Black Women in STEM
On average, Black women in STEM earn salaries that are 45% lower than their highest-paid peers. BestColleges is committed to breaking down barriers for students in underrepresented communities, who desire careers in the most competitive fields. This year, we’ll be giving away five $6,000 scholarships to Black women who are currently pursuing careers in STEM.
This scholarship is for individuals who identify as a cisgender, transgender, or gender non-conforming Black woman, and who are pursuing a STEM-related field.
Application Deadline: September 30, 2023 at 11:59 p.m. EST
For more details visit:
Best Colleges Scholarship
Columbia Fully Funded M.S. of Science Fellowship
The Amazon MS Fellowship at Columbia Engineering is a new program designed to increase the participation of students from underrepresented groups in graduate programs in STEM disciplines
The Amazon MS Fellowship includes: full tuition and fees for completing program requirements, a chance to participate in an Amazon internship, industry professional supervision and consideration for career opportunities at Amazon
More information on our programs can be found on the
Columbia Engineering Admission website
For deadlines and to apply, visit
Columbia Graduate Engineering
James A. Abrahamson Space Leader Fellowship
This 12-month advanced learning experience is designed to promote workforce development for exceptional undergraduate and early-stage graduate students from underrepresented groups by introducing them to the diversity of research and technology development enabled by space.
Fellows will work closely with the CASIS team and its network of partners to advance the ISS National Lab mission and our nation’s goal to commercialize low Earth orbit (LEO)
More information can be found at
https://www.issnationallab.org/higher-education-opportunities/james-a-abrahamson-space-leader-fellowship/
Lockheed Martin Scholarships
The
Vocational Scholarship
is geared towards high school seniors and students pursuing associate’s degrees, credit-bearing certificates, or industry-recognized credentials in technology and advanced manufacturing disciplines. Students pursuing or already having achieved bachelor’s or advanced degrees are not eligible for the Vocational Scholarship. This year, the program will award up to 150 scholarships worth $5,000 in funds per student.
The corporation’s four-year
STEM Scholarship
program is focused on high school seniors and undergraduate students who are or are planning to pursue a major in various engineering disciplines or various disciplines of computer science. This year, the program will award up to 200 scholarships worth $10,000 in renewable funds per student.
The 2023 Application has passed, but check back for the 2024 application.
To learn more and apply, visit
http://www.lockheedmartin.com/scholarship
ScholarSHPE (SHPE Scholarships)
The ScholarSHPE program helps fill the gap in the Hispanic education pipeline from high school through to successful career placement in STEM fields. For the 2022-2023 academic year, SHPE provided over $1,000,000 in scholarships. This year YOU could be one of those recipients!
The application for ’23 – ’24 has passed, but check back soon for the ’24 – ’25 academic year
https://www.shpe.org/students/scholarshpe
VMware Achieve and Rise Scholarships
The Achieve scholarship
provides a one-time, $10,000 USD tuition award to a woman pursuing a degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or related. To be eligible, applicants must identify as a woman and be currently enrolled in a US based accredited university with a minimum GPA of 3.0
The Rise Scholarship
provides a one-time, $5,000 USD tuition award to two students pursuing a Bachelor’s degree in Computer Science, Computer Engineering, or related. Applicants must identify with one or more underrepresented minority groups and be currently enrolled in a US based accredited university with a minimum GPA of 3.0
To learn more and apply to these scholarships, please visit:
https://careers.vmware.com/scholarships
Stay tuned! More scholarship opportunities will come soon.
LinkedIn
Donate to CEED
Facebook
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA