Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching Software Download | SEASnet
Select Page
Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching Software Download
Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching is available to UCLA students and employees (with a valid UCLA Email account) for instructional and non-commercial research purposes. For details, see
Microsoft Azure Dev Tools Program Frequently Asked Questions.
Instruction to access Azure Dev Tools for Education:
Go to
https://azureforeducation.microsoft.com/devtools
and click “Sign In”
If you have an existing Microsoft account, login with that. If you do not have an existing Microsoft account, click “Create one”. If you create an account, you may choose to create an account by itself or create an account with “Get a new email address” (choose either outlook.com or hotmail.com). DO NOT create or login with @ucla.edu, @g.ucla.edu, or @PersonalMicrosoftSoftware.ucla.edu.
After you login to Microsoft Azure, you should get the “Academic verification required” page. On this page, verify your UCLA affiliation by entering your [UCLA LOGON]@ucla.edu email address.
Login to
https://g.ucla.edu
and in the email from Microsoft for academic status confirmation, click on the verification link. If you’re asked to login again, login with the Microsoft account in step #2.
You now should have access to Azure Dev Tools for Teaching where you can download over 100+ Microsoft developer tools and learning resources. Download at Home > All Services > Education > Software.
Be sure to abide by all the policies and agreements that you had agreed to when using Azure Dev Tools for Teaching.
NOTE: SEASnet does not have the resources to assist in troubleshooting installation problems or answer specific questions about all the software available through this program. It is the responsibility of the end user to understand the software they are downloading and any system requirements.  For questions, please email
msdnaa-admin@seas.ucla.edu
.
IMPORTANT: YOU ARE RESPONSIBLE FOR MAINTAINING LICENSE INFORMATION FOR SOFTWARE YOU HAVE DOWNLOADED. SEASnet WILL NOT RETRIEVE LICENSES.
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT