Class Resource Activation | SEASnet
Select Page
Class Resource Activation
MyEngineering
has the online form for requesting additional SEASnet resources for your class, such as temporary disk space, TA accounts, and access to
restricted software
. In order to ensure compliance, restricted software must be specifically requested by the instructor or TA of the class for coursework. Software may also be restricted because it has been purchased by a specific academic department for use with only their classes. SEASnet reserves the right to deny access to any software we manage.
Notes on software:
MATLAB is not restricted and does not need to be requested.
Notes on TA accounts:
Access will be removed the Sunday after finals
– requests for extensions may or may not be able to be accommodated.
The TA accounts are reused and assigned to a different TA each quarter, so files stored in any TA accounts are not guaranteed to be retained. If you need to reuse any files in your TA account, you must save them elsewhere before the end of finals week.
To activate additional class resources:
Log in to
my.engineering.ucla.edu
.
In the “
My
” tab, find the box labeled “
Instructor of
” or “
TA of
” in the left column.
Click on “
Additional resources: request form
” for the class you want to request additional resources.  (You can also click on the class link and at the class site in MyEngineering, click “
Resource Activation
” in the “
Class Admin Tools
” block on the left.)
You will see a form to fill out. Please enter in the needed information.
IMPORTANT: Only the Instructor / TA names listed on this form will be given TA accounts. For TA’s not listed (in the hiring process), this form must be re-submitted once hired.
Once you are done filling out the form, click on “
Submit
” and you request will be sent to SEASnet to be processed.
You will receive an e-mail when the request has been completed. (Note: restricted software will not be available to students until the following day after your received our email.)
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT