Computing Information for New Students | SEASnet
Select Page
Computing Information for New Students
What is a SEASnet Account?
A
SEASnet lab account
provides access to the SEASnet computer labs and software that is only available to engineering students.  A SEASnet account is different from a
UCLA LOGON ID
that is available to all UCLA students and is needed for accessing some applications in
UCLA Digital Toolkit
.  Both accounts are important for engineering students.
What Type of Computer Do I Need?
SEASnet believes that the type of computer an engineering student wishes to use is a personal choice.  Rather than making specific recommendations, we provide information and guidelines so each student can make an informed decision based on individual preferences.
The instructional computing facility (SEASnet) has been tasked with providing students the software they will need in order to complete their coursework.  Students will have 24/7 remote access to both Linux and Windows servers.  SEASnet also provides 4 walk-in student labs open varying hours 7 days a week during the quarter, with extended hours 8th-10th week.
SEASnet labs are Windows-based since the majority of software used by engineering courses runs on Windows.  While the bulk of our computing experience is with Windows, we do assist users who prefer to work on Mac OS X.  Mac users have many options for running Windows software (e.g., Parallels, Fusion, and Remote Desktop connections to a SEASnet server).  We do caution students in fields like mechanical engineering that they may not be satisfied with the performance of graphics-intensive applications on a Mac machine running Windows.
UCLA Computer Store also has some
recommendations on computers
.
No matter what type of machine you choose to purchase, we do recommend that engineers never skimp on memory, processor speed, and disk space.  Also, depending on how much work you plan to do on your machine, you may want to consider a larger screen.
Please do not hesitate to contact us at
help@seas.ucla.edu
if you have additional questions or concerns.
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT