Contact Us | SEASnet
Select Page
Contact Us
Email
The best way to get help is to email
help@seas.ucla.edu
.
Text message with your phone
Open your texting app on your phone.
In the recipient field, enter
help@seas.ucla.edu
instead of phone number.
Write your message : include your name, UCLA ID number, and short question / email address.
Send text. Your cell phone provider will convert your message into an email.
Phone
Support: (310) 206-6864 ( voice only )
Hours
Monday – Friday
8:00 am – 12:00 pm
1:00 pm – 4:30 pm
Address
2684 Boelter Hall
Los Angeles, CA
90095-1600
Notes
SEASnet staff monitor all essential services during non-business hours. All other issues must wait until the next business day.
If you suspect a
security problem
with your account
,
please
contact SEASnet
immediately.
Lost and found items left in the SEASnet labs are turned in to 6426 Boelter Hall.
Staff
Administration:
Wibowo, Nicodemus (Nico) – SEASnet Director
Help Desk:
Hernandez-Torres, Miguel – IT Helpdesk Manager and Lead Technical Support
Gomez, Eddie – IT Support Technician
Tsang, Andrew – IT Support Technician
Infrastructure:
Chavarria, Diedrich – System Administrator
Dai, Yong – Infrastructure Manager and System Administrator
Harris, Carey – Computer Labs Support
Hua, Vincent – Network and Security Administrator
Vacant
– Lab Manager
Applications and Information Systems:
Chieu, Orachat – Information Systems and Software Engineering Manager
Guo, Bessie – Software/Database/Support Engineer
Henderson, Brook – Software/Database/Support Engineer
Kath, Kat – Support Business and Instructional Technology Specialist
Leonardo, Mauro – Software/Database/Support Engineer
Qiu, Elina – Software/Database/Support Engineer
Yamauchi, Miyo – Software/Database/Support Engineer
Facility:
Aguirre, Gilbert – Network Cabling Technician
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT