Group Email Lists | SEASnet
Select Page
Group Email Lists
MyEngineering Email Alias Lists
Users who have been given access can use this tool to list available email aliases belonging to the user’s unit.
To access, login to
https://my.engineering.ucla.edu
and navigate to “[dept] Staff” > “Email Aliases”.
To view the individuals in the alias, click the [members] text.
To send email, click on the email alias itself. This will bring up your default email program and place the alias in the “bcc” field.
Important Policies about HSSEAS Aliases:
Aliases are restricted to ensure that only authorized senders may email HSSEAS aliases.  Do not assume that if you can see the alias, you can send to it.  Aliases may
ONLY
be used for HSSEAS business.
All aliases should be sent to
aliasname@ea.ucla.edu
from the
BCC
line – do
NOT
put the alias in the To or CC line of your email program.
We respect users’ right to privacy.  You may
NOT
share email addresses with anyone.
All aliases are generated by pulling data from either personnel or student database systems. If someone is missing from an alias, please check the individual’s status in the appropriate database.
Aliases cannot be modified manually.  Users may not be removed from an alias without a database change.
Users violating these policies may have their ability to send to the aliases revoked.
MyEngineering Email Tool
Users with access can use this tool to email students, instructors, TAs, and class rosters belonging to the user’s unit.
To access, login to
https://my.engineering.ucla.edu
and navigate to “[dept] Staff” > “Email” > “Department” or “Class”
Please follow
MyEngineering’s email policy
. Users violating these policies may have their access revoked.
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT