SEASnet Service Request (formerly MSR) | SEASnet
Select Page
SEASnet Service Request (formerly MSR)
This form is used to request services from the SEASnet Computing Facility.
If you are only requesting port activation, NO CHARGES will be made to the account number you have provided. Please be sure to specify the correct port information as detailed below under the REQUEST DETAILS section.  Please also include your currently issued IP Address.
If you are requesting an ethernet cable, please specify the quantity and length of cable(s) desired in the REQUEST DETAILS section.
If you are requesting purchase of a switch, please specify 5-port or 8-port the REQUEST DETAILS section.
If you are requesting work on a computer, it is your responsibility to ensure that you have all your data backed up prior to SEASnet beginning the work. If you cannot backup your data prior to the start of the job, notify SEASnet and we will do our best to backup your data for you before the work begins; however, it is understood that
SEASnet will not be responsible for the loss of any data
.  Please make sure you are specific with your request so that work can be done properly.
Once this request is received, you should receive a call or email to setup an appointment.
PLEASE NOTE:
If you are unsure whether or not a charge will apply, please ask that you would like an estimate of associated costs in the REQUEST DETAILS section.
*
indicates required field
Name:
*
Email:
*
Re-enter Email:
*
(your email within ucla.edu)
Phone Number:
*
Building:
*
-- Select an engineering building --
BH
E4
E5
E6
LifeSci
Room number:
*
Department:
*
-- Select a department --
BE
CBE
CEE
CEED
CS
EE
MAE
MSE
MSOL
OASA
DEAN's Group
Other
Recharge ID:
*
(may be obtained from your Departments administrative staff)
Authorized by:
(adviser or department head authorizing this)
Authorizer's E-mail Address:
Machine Name (hostname) / IP address :
REQUEST DETAILS
Ethernet Cable - Please include quantity and length.
Switch - Please specify 5-port or 8-port Switch.
Port Activation - if you already have an IP Address and are moving to a new room/location, please include your SEASnet issued IP address and the port number (in format "PORT PLATE / PORT NUMBER") for the following buildings:
E IV (57-108 / B24)
BH (E or W-P24)
EV (NOT REQUIRED)
EVI (306 / 2F09) - A New IP Address will be issued, please ensure we have all information requested under Office Moves
Office Moves - We will need the following information for each machine being moved:
Original IP Address used (If no IP Address was issued, please submit the "IP Address Request Form")
Contact User Name
Contact User Email
Advisor / Group Name
New Building / Room #
New Extension
Department
Your new Port Number
Work on a Computer - Please include your current operating system and be specific on what task you need done.
Please input your request below:
Note: SEASnet is here to assist you with your hardware and software needs. We do not physically move computing equipment.
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT