SEASnet Computer Support Request Form | SEASnet
Select Page
SEASnet Computer Support Request Form
*** THIS FORM IS TO BE USED TO PLACE AN EXISTING COMPUTER ONTO SEASNET SUPPORT ***
General Information - SEASnet is funded for computing support for 19900 and 19935 funded staff. For those staff not on 19900 or 19935 funds, SEASnet will maintain your PC for a monthly fee. Please fill out the following form to authorize a support contract. The monthly fee is: $30 PC (Windows only).
Policies regarding supported machines:
By submitting this request for a support contract, you are agreeing to have the machine placed on support for at least one year.
Differential backups are done weekly and full backups are done monthly.  Full backups may not exceed 30GB. Users exceeding this quota will have their backups temporarily discontinued until they are in range of the approved quotas.  Users wishing to use the Outlook email client will not have email backups.
Users may not have administrative privileges to their machine. For a list of supported software, please see: Departmental computing support.
If your request for support is for a machine that may not conform to computer vendor standards, we will make every effort to accommodate the request. However, by completing this request you are stating that you understand that at any given time if a security patch or upgrade is required and SEASnet is not successful in installing the patch or upgrade, the machine will be removed from support.  Machines older than 5 years cannot be supported.
By submitting this request you are agreeing to all SEASnet policies regarding supported machines.
*
indicates required field
Requester Information:
Requester Email:
*
Must be in the form of .ucla.edu
Machine Information
Hostname:
*
Subnet:
*
seas.ucla.edu
ee.ucla.edu
ea.ucla.edu
icsl.ucla.edu
Operating System:
*
Windows 7
Windows 8
Windows 8.1
Windows 10
Other (Please Specify Below)
Currently Windows 7
Win XP is no longer supported by UCLA
Other:
Please input your "other" Operating System
Owner / User Information
Name:
*
Owner Email:
*
Phone Number:
*
Building:
*
BH
E4
E5
E6
LifeSci
Room Number:
*
Recharge ID:
*
Department:
*
Faculty Advisor:
*
Comments:
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT