SEASnet Accounts | SEASnet
Select Page
SEASnet Accounts
SEASnet offers lab accounts for students, faculty, and staff in the Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science. The following are general guidelines for each type of account available. If you need additional assistance, please contact
help
@
seas
.
ucla
.
edu
. All accounts are subject to the
SEASnet User Agreement
.
Student Accounts
Students whose registration fees are current and is a registered engineering student or a non-engineering student officially enrolled in an engineering course are eligible for a SEASnet account. See more details at
https://www.seasnet.ucla.edu/student-account-info
. Students may apply for an account at
https://www.seas.ucla.edu/acctapp
.
IMPORTANT student account expiration
:
Engineering students
Your account will be deactivated after your registration fees are not paid by the deadline.
Your account will be reactivated if you pay your registration fees within one year after deactivation. If you forget your password, please follow the instruction at
https://www.seasnet.ucla.edu/changing-password
.
Your account will be
permanently deleted
if you don’t pay your registration fees within one year after deactivation. If you will be on
Leave of Absence
for more than one year, you will need to get a new account when you return. Deleted accounts will not be restored.
Non-engineering students
Your SEASnet account will be deactivated after you are no longer officially enrolled in any engineering class or your registration fees are not paid by the deadline.
Your account will be reactivated if you officially enroll in any engineering class and pay your registration fees within one year after deactivation. If you forget your password, please follow the instruction at
https://www.seasnet.ucla.edu/changing-password
.
Your SEASnet account will be
permanently deleted
if you don’t officially enroll in any engineering class and pay your registration fees within one year after deactivation. Deleted accounts will not be restored.
Faculty Accounts
Tenure-track faculty may apply for an account by completing the
SEASnet Non-Administrative Employee Account Application
form. Faculty accounts expire at the end of employment.
Administrative Staff Accounts
See
Administrative Staff Account Requests
.
Non-Administrative Staff Accounts
Non-administrative staff may apply for an account by completing the
SEASnet Non-Administrative Employee Account Application
form. Staff accounts expires yearly on
October 31
and must be renewed annually during October. Renewal instructions will be emailed to your UCLA Official Email prior to the renewal deadline. Accounts not renewed by October 31 of each year will be deleted. No accounts will be restored.
User Agreement
All users of SEASnet resources are responsible for understanding and abiding by the
SEASnet User Agreement
. By using any SEASnet resource, it is assumed that you have read and agreed to these terms.
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT