Software Downloads | SEASnet
Select Page
Software Downloads
Depending on the software, you will be required to log in using your UCLA Logon ID.
SEASnet is not responsible for the installation of any software on your machine, either in UCLA or at home. Assistance provided with this service is minimal and can only be accommodated through requests sent via email to the appropriate address listed below for each program. Walk-in assistance will not be provided. Finally, please make sure that you keep a copy of license information for all software you have downloaded. SEASnet will not retrieve license keys.
See also
Software Download Frequently Asked Questions
.
Software
Eligibility
Download Requirements
Microsoft Azure Dev Tools for Teaching (formerly
Imagine/Dreamspark)
Available to UCLA students and employees (with a valid UCLA Email account) for instructional and non-commercial research purposes; you cannot use it to run the infrastructure of a department.
must not use @ucla.edu to login, but only use @ucla.edu to verify affiliation with UCLA
MCCA*
[Basic Microsoft Azure Dev Tools/MCCA Program Differences]
Available to Engineering tenure track faculty and non-research staff on payroll.NOTES:
– If the software you’re looking for is not on the download site or if you need to report a problem or just have a general question, email
mcca-admin@seas.ucla.edu
.
– For Activation Instructions, please click
HERE
.- OFFICE NOTE: on NEW PC’s, Please Un-Install any OFFICE / Trial Prior to installing
MAC Office – with the Catalina OS, Office 2016 will no longer work, please download / install Office 2019
MAC Office 2016 – ensure you run the Serializer first, then install the software
MAC Office 2019 – please download both the Serializer (run prior to install) and the Installer
must have @ucla.edu account
Office ProPlus
Available to UCLA students through Bruin OnLine.
must have @ucla.edu account
Abaqus
Available to UCLA students and faculty. Need to submit eligibility request at
https://academy.3ds.com/en/software/abaqus-student-edition
Adobe Creative Cloud
UCLA has obtained a sitewide license for all faculty, staff and students for Adobe Creative Cloud. This license provides you with access to versions of various Adobe apps like Acrobat, Photoshop, Illustrator, etc. Please click on the link to the left to view instructions on how to download your Adobe software.
must have @ucla.edu account
ANSYS
ANSYS Student software is free for download from ANSYS at
https://www.ansys.com/academic/free-student-products/
The ANSYS Full Version license is for Engineering classes only.
Autodesk
Available to anyone with an .edu address.
MathType*
Available to Engineering students, tenure track faculty and non-research staff on payroll.
NOTES:
– This software is not available to non-engineering students. If you are a non-engineering student enrolled in a course that requires the MathType fonts, you will need to use the software in the SEASnet labs.
– WINDOWS – The current version will not work with Office-2019.
– MAC – Per the MathType Site:
https://store.wiris.com/en/products/mathtype/download/?_ga=2.6180209.37206783.1694703168-996002425.1666893820
– for Mathtype for MAC Mojave or earlier, you must contact MathType Support at:
https://store.wiris.com/en/contact
– Email help@seas.ucla.edu with any questions.
must have @ucla.edu accountt
MATLAB
MATLAB software is available as a self-service installation for individual user computers. For details about obtaining access, installing, and using MATLAB software, please see
How to Get MATLAB
.  For questions,
please contact UCLA Software Central at SoftwareCentral@ucla.edu.
Pro/II
Approval is required to download Pro/II.
Other software offerings at UCLA
UCLA IT Services offers some software at no cost to faculty, staff and students
.
UCLA Software Central
has campus-wide agreements for the software products and services commonly used in support of UCLA’s teaching, research and public service missions.
must have @ucla.edu account
* If your software requires a license key it will be automatically emailed to your Official UCLA Email Address.
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA
We use cookies to understand how you use our site and to improve your experience, including personalizing content and to store your content preferences. If you would prefer, you may set your browser to refuse cookies or alert you when cookies are being sent. However, it is possible that some parts of our sites will not function properly if you do so. By continuing to use our sites, you accept our use of cookies and
Terms of Use
.
I ACCEPT