Campus Purchasing | Purchasing & Accounts Payable
Skip to Main Content
Business & Finance Solutions
Purchasing & Accounts Payable
Search Icon
Search the site:
Home
Campus Purchasing
Vision
: To be acknowledged by University of California executive and campus leadership, faculty, staff and students as a high performing strategic partner that is essential to the financial health of the University.
Mission
: To expand opportunities for teaching, research and public service by delivering savings and efficient procurement services across the University of California.
Commodity Directory
A list of many goods and services purchased by the University along with contact information for the Campus Purchasing Buyer who can assist you with each.
Access
Vendor Agreements List
The Vendor Agreements List provides a sortable and searchable index of items for which University agreements have been negotiated and established.
Access
Electronic Invoicing
Vendors can directly submit their invoices to AP.
Learn More
PO Checklist
Your dynamic guide to understanding your purchase's individual requisition requirements, from documentation to next steps and support channels.
Learn More
Equipment Management
The Equipment Management System (EQM) tracks all equipment, and facilitates equipment status changes and equipment inventory-taking online.
Learn More
Procurement Card
UCLA's Procurement Card (Pcard) is a Visa® card for staff and faculty members who have buying responsibilities. The card simplifies purchasing of most routine, low-cost goods and services.
Learn More
BruinBuy Hosted Catalogs
Use the eCat platform to purchase items from hosted catalogs.
Learn More
Outsourcing for Covered Services
UC policy protects against outsourcing of services that can be provided by University employees.
Learn More
BruinBuy
Plus
Legacy BruinBuy (View-Only)
Campus Purchasing
Email:
purchasing@finance.ucla.edu
Phone: (310) 79
4-6029
Address
Mail Code: 148248
10920 Wilshire Boulevard, Suite 650
Los Angeles, CA 90024
Office Hours
Monday – Friday 7:30 a.m. to 4:30 p.m.
Saturday and Sunday Closed
Accounts Payable (310) 794-0197
Facebook
Instagram
Linked
Twitter
Youtube
TikTok
Snapchat
© 2024 Regents of the
University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use