Appointments | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Academic Advising Options
Upcoming Closures:
Presidents’ Day Holiday –
Monday, February 19th

Send Us A Message

Schedule An Appointment
Meet our  student advisors who are engineering graduate students
Johnson Liu, Akhilesh Mendon, Isu Kim, Austin Chen
Options for NON-ENGINEERING Students
For students
NOT
within the School of Engineering:
Please utilize our drop-in advising sessions. MyUCLA won’t allow you to schedule an individual appointment since we are not your primary College Counseling Unit.
You can write us a message through
Message Center
. Message Center is a service accessible through
MyUCLA
. UCLA’s Samueli School of Engineering allows students to submit questions to our Undergraduate Academic Counselors via Message Center. MyUCLA’s Message Center is the best way to communicate with our advising staff. Here you can ask general questions, submit petitions for review, and inquire on future course planning. In order to direct your message to the most appropriate party, please filter your selection. You can filter your search to find a specific
Academic counseling unit
(e.g., Bioengineering), or for a specific
Topic
(e.g., Petitions/Exceptions: HSSEAS (Engineering)).
Bioinformatics, Data Science Engineering & Environmental Engineering Students
For Bioinformatics, Data Science Engineering, or Environmental Engineering students (
available minors within the School of Engineering
)
Please utilize our drop-in advising sessions. MyUCLA won’t allow you to schedule a 1-on-1 appointment since we are not your primary College Counseling Unit.
You can write us a message through
Message Center
. Message Center is a service accessible through
MyUCLA
. UCLA’s Samueli School of Engineering allows students to submit questions to our Undergraduate Academic Counselors via Message Center. MyUCLA’s Message Center is the best way to communicate with our advising staff. Here you can ask general questions, submit petitions for review, and inquire on future course planning. In order to direct your message to the most appropriate party, please filter your selection. You can filter your search to find a specific
Academic counseling unit
(e.g., Bioengineering), or for a specific
Topic
(e.g., Petitions/Exceptions: HSSEAS (Engineering)).
Meet our student assistants who be would happy to
answer your questions at the 6426 BH front office
Michelle Tang and Daniela Cruz
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA