Degree Candidate Information | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Degree candidates should be aware of the following oversights that prevent student’s from graduating:
Engineering Subset Restrictions
here:
https://www.seasoasa.ucla.edu/undergraduate-technical-breadth-area-tba/
Approved GE List
: Please pay special attention to GEs, by making sure they are in the proper subgroups listed here:
https://www.seasoasa.ucla.edu/ge-home/
DEGREE AUDIT PROCESS
(Must be completed one quarter before degree expected term. For example, If you are a Spring candidate, this must be completed week 1-3 of the Winter quarter.)
Statement of Degree Candidacy Questionnaire
Watch our Step by Step Degree Audit Process Video!
STEP 1: DECLARE DEGREE EXPECTED TERM
Registrar:
Declaring Candidacy [click here]
STEP 2: RUN A DARS REPORT VIA DEGREE AUDIT SYSTEM
Sign in to MyUCLA and run a new DARS Report via the Degree Audit System
View the report and be sure to select the option “OPEN ALL SECTIONS”
Confirm that a Technical Breadth Area has been declared. If this needs to be declared or updated, please login to
UCLA MyEngineering
and declare/or update your Technical Breadth Area and tracks. Please note, this will take at least 24 hours to update to the DARS Report. FOR BE, ChE, CEE, and MSE majors, you must also declare Option/Pathway/Track*.*Options/pathways are only for ECE Majors in pre-Fall 14 catalogs only.
Review every section of the report to confirm information is accurate, including General Education coursework is fulfilling the correct Foundations and Category located towards the bottom of the report.
Please review if any courses are falling under the “Available Courses” section, that may contribute toward unfulfilled degree requirements. If there are courses falling here that should be meeting a requirement, then a
HSSEAS petition
for consideration is required.
If a student has submitted a petition and the status is pending for course substitution, the student is responsible for enrolling in a backup course until the petition is approved. Please note that
enrollment deadlines
will be enforced.
BEFORE moving on to STEP 3 below, confirm if there is anything on the DARS report that looks incorrect (e.g. credit missing that you thought you satisfied). Please refer any questions or concerns regarding the Degree Audit Process to:
Message Center – Degree Auditor
or
schedule an appointment
with an Academic Counselor.
Lastly, if all areas of the DARS Report appear accurate, save the report as a PDF to your computer as you will need to attach it to the Statement of Degree Candidacy Questionnaire.
Instructions to save DARS pdf:
1) log onto DARS
2) under the pie chart toggle OPEN ALL SECTIONS
3) toward the top right toggle PRINTER friendly
4) then right click on your mouse and you should get an option print to pdf
STEP 3: COMPLETE STATEMENT OF DEGREE CANDIDACY FORM – Due one quarter before degree expected term (Spring candidates must submit during weeks 1-3 of the Winter quarter).
Complete the
Statement of Degree Candidacy (SDC) form.
Be sure to attach the DARS Report.
ATTENTION ALL FALL Degree Candidates:
All Fall Degree Candidates who are interested in “walking” in the Spring Commencement Ceremony must complete the Special Request portion of the
Statement of Degree Candidacy (SDC)
form. More information will be posted on the
Commencement Home Page.
Fall degree candidates who are not interested in participating in the Spring Commencement Ceremony are still required to complete the
Statement of Degree Candidacy (SDC) form online
during Week 1- Week 3 of the Spring quarter.
STEP 4: RECEIVE OFFICIAL DEGREE AUDIT FROM OASA
If the Degree Audit Process was followed within the designated time period as instructed above, as a courtesy the OASA Degree Audit Team will send degree candidates an
Official Degree Audit
via a MyUCLA Notice with a link to MyEngineering that will have the student’s personalized audit.
This will confirm any remaining requirements needed to complete degree requirements in the last term. Please note, it is the ultimate responsibility of the student to confirm degree requirements. The Degree Audit Team will do their best to send the Official Degree Audit before the start of the student’s final term. If you followed the outlined Degree Audit Process above and did not receive an Official Degree Audit by the beginning of the final quarter be sure to send a message to the degree auditors via
Message Center
. From time to time, the degree auditors will send emails regarding time sensitive information. When a student receives an Official Degree Audit it is important to confirm the following:
Confirm the courses listed are accurate
Keep for your records
Utilize as a checklist for coursework to enroll in your last term
Immediately email the
Degree Audit Team
, if there are any discrepancies to your degree audit as you will be held responsible for them.
STEP 5: RUN NEW DARS REPORT AFTER FINAL TERM’S ENROLLMENT
Once students are enrolled in the final quarter’s courses, and before the start of the final term, all students are required to run another DARS report via the Degree Audit System on MyUCLA to review all sections are now satisfied. The top of the DARS report should read ‘All Degree Requirements met and In-Progress”. If students have any questions or concerns please immediately contact the Degree Audit Team via the
Message Center
or
schedule an appointment
with an Academic Counselor.
For Double Majors or Minors – If students intend to graduate with a double (second major) or minor, students should have previously filed and been approved a
Request to Double Major/or Minor
before following the degree audit process.
For the three minors housed in HSSEAS (Bioinformatics, Data Science Engineering & Environmental Engineering) you must be admitted to these programs before your final term. •Once you have completed your degree, you may not add a double major or minor.
STEP 6: COMPLETE THE SENIOR EXIT SURVEY IN APRIL
Students will gain access to complete the Senior Exit survey in April if the Statement of Degree Candidacy was completed. The survey is a REQUIREMENT for Commencement participation. SEE
Commencement Home Page
for more information. NOTE: Access to the survey is initiated by following the Degree Audit Process so please be mindful of the steps.
STEP 7: REVIEW DARS AND TRANSCRIPTS ONCE FINAL GRADES HAVE BEEN POSTED
All Degree Candidates are advised to review their DARS report and transcripts immediately upon posting of final term grades for accuracy. Students must immediately notify a
Degree Auditor
of any failed, non-passing, incomplete, or “DR” grades in the final term OR of any other changes to the academic record. Students’ degrees will be awarded upon successful completion of final coursework. Upon degree conferral, the undergraduate record is closed. Students may not graduate in one term and then retroactively add majors, minors, or specializations or complete course work or add/drop courses, and so forth.
IMPORTANT THINGS TO KNOW
The minimum unit requirement to earn a B.S. in Engineering is 180+ units. (See your major requirements outlined in the Engineering Announcement: https://www.seasoasa.ucla.edu/hsseas-announcements/)
The required minimum grade-point average is 2.000 for all course work completed (Cumulative GPA), all upper-division course work used for the major (Major Field Upper Division GPA), and all required upper-division course work (Upper Division GPA) completed at any UC campus.
Of the last 48 units completed for the B.S. degree, 36 must be earned in academic residence in HSSEAS on this campus. No more than 16 of the 36 units may be completed in Summer Sessions at UCLA.
FEE REDUCTION INFORMATION
FEE REDUCTION – The deadline to file for a fee reduction is Friday of the second week of the quarter, it is the student’s responsibility to submit the form before the deadline for consideration
Refer to Samueli Engineering Fee Reduction Policy and Submission process detailed at
https://www.seasoasa.ucla.edu/petition-process/
LATIN HONORS CRITERIA
VIEW LATIN HONORS ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA
HAVE ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS?
CONTACT OUR DEGREE AUDIT TEAM VIA MESSAGE CENTER
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA