OASA Home | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
OASA Home
The Office of Academic and Student Affairs (OASA) provides
academic advising and counseling
for engineering undergraduate students.  Our counseling and advising services include guidance with
policies and procedures
, advice on
curriculum requirements
, identification of
resources for tutoring and study skill improvement
, and the review of
petitions
.  However, we also serve as a gateway to a myriad of campus resources, and welcome any engineering undergraduate student to stop by 6426 Boelter Hall for help with their concern.
In addition to student advising, OASA supports engineering students in a variety of ways throughout their UCLA experience, beginning before admission and continuing until
degree completion
and
commencement
.
OASA plays a central role in the
admission
of engineering undergraduates to UCLA, and
welcomes and advises admitted student
s.
Some of our engineering students start out in another major at UCLA.  We provide regular
change of major workshops
to guide students through this process.
We also help direct engineering students to
internship opportunities
as well as
research opportunities
.
OASA works with the Office of External Affairs to publicize the large number of
scholarships
available to engineering students.  Many of these scholarships are also administered by OASA.
For students approaching graduation, OASA provides a
degree audit
to clarify exactly which requirements remain to be fulfilled for degree completion.  Students should be sure they understand this mandatory process at least two quarters prior to their degree expected term.
OASA works with the administration of each engineering department to ensure that curriculum offerings and course scheduling support timely degree progress for our students.  These offerings are publicized in the most recent
HSSEAS Announcement
.
OASA administers the senior exit survey and provides extensive
statistics
about the school.
OASA also works with the numerous engineering
student organizations.
If you are a prospective student planning on visiting UCLA, you can
schedule an Engineering tour here
.
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA