Support Services | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Workshops and Support Opportunities
OASA Academic Workshops
Tutoring
Career Planning and Exploration
Wellness Support
Additional Resources
OASA Academic Workshop
The Office of Academic and Student Affairs (OASA) offers a multitude of workshops and information sessions each quarter to support student success
.
These workshops and information sessions include topics on Changing Majors, Study Abroad, Class Planning, S.M.A.R.T. Goals, Scholarship Writing, and Time Management.
Click here
.
Tutoring Resources
Tau Beta Pi   (TBP)
TBP is the only engineering honor society representing the entire engineering profession. It is the nation’s second-oldest honor society, founded at Lehigh University in 1885 to mark in a fitting manner those who have conferred honor upon their Alma Mater by distinguished scholarship and exemplary character as students in engineering, or by their attainments as alumni in the field of engineering, and to foster a spirit of liberal culture in engineering colleges. The National Engineering Honor Society provides tutoring in all lower-division math and science courses along with lower-division engineering courses.
TBP Tutoring Schedule can be found here:
https://tbp.seas.ucla.edu/tutoring/schedule
Eta Kappa Nu (HKN)
HKN was founded at the University of Illinois in 1904, HKN consists of students, alumni, and other professionals who have demonstrated exceptional academic and professional accomplishments in the electrical and computer engineering fields.
HKN Tutoring Schedule can be found here
https://hkn.ee.ucla.edu/tutoring
Upsilon Pi Epsilon (UPE)
UPE is the International Honor Society for the Computing and Information Disciplines. UPE aims to maximize the personal and professional growth of students in the field of Computer Science
UPE Tutoring Schedule can be found here
https://upe.seas.ucla.edu/tutoring/
Math Department Tutor List
https:
//ww3.math.ucla.edu/tutoring/
The Math Success Program at UCLA
– provides Math counselors to guide students in 1-on-1 sessions to develop the confidence and skills necessary to apply math inside and outside of the classroom.
Career Planning and Exploration
Career Center Evhttps://hkn.ee.ucla.edu/tutoringents and Services
Logon to
Handshake
> click the Career Center tab > click the Resources link > click the Article “Not sure what career you want to choose?” There you will find the Focus 2 Link and Access Code that reads:
Not sure what to major in or what career path to follow? Take this series of self-assessments to learn how your personality, interests, skills, and values align with academic and career options.
Login or register for a new FOCUS-2 account
.  When creating a new account, use access code g0bRu1ns!
UCLA MyMajors
After completing this assessment, you will receive a list of your best-fit majors at UCLA.
Wellness Support
Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)
The UCLA Samueli School of Engineering continues to partner with Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) to offer free, confidential, brief support for students within the School of Engineering
[click here for services]
Additional  Support Services
Equity, Diversity and Inclusion
https://samueli.ucla.edu/equity-diversity-and-inclusion/
At UCLA, diversity is an indispensable element of academic excellence. The UCLA Samueli School of Engineering is committed to an equitable, diverse and inclusive culture for its students, staff and faculty. We strive to achieve a diverse student and faculty body, with programs designed to foster a nurturing learning environment that will complement a rigorous engineering education for anyone with the talent and the desire to succeed. A population rich in diversity expands the range of knowledge, experiences and viewpoints, leading to innovative new solutions that otherwise would not be possible.
UCLA Center for Accessible Education (CAE)
http://www.cae.ucla.edu/
UCLA’s Center for Accessible Education (CAE) facilitates academic accommodations for regularly enrolled, matriculating students with disabilities. The CAE provides access to the numerous educational opportunities available to students on our campus and empowers students to realize their academic potential.
U
CLA  Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center (The Ashe Center)
https://www.studenthealth.ucla.edu/
is devoted to providing quality, accessible, state-of-the-art healthcare and education to support the unique development of UCLA students.
Dashew Center for International Students and Scholars
http://www.internationalcenter.ucla.edu/
UCLA is home to more than 12,000 international students and scholars away from home. The Dashew Center is the place where domestic and international students and scholars meet. Dashew enhances the UCLA experience for international students and scholars with our multicultural programs and services. It assists UCLA academic departments with visa services and serve as a resource and learning center for the entire UCLA community to promote global connection, international understanding, and cultural sensitivity.
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA