Nsf Fellowship Information | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Nsf Fellowship Information
NSF Graduate Research Fellowship
The eGSA now holds GRSF workshops every Fall Quarter. Please visit
http://bruinegsa.org
for more information.
Program Overview
The National Science Foundation aims to ensure the vitality of the human resource base of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics in the United States and to reinforce its diversity by offering approximately 1,654 graduate fellowships in this competition pending availability of funds. The Graduate Research Fellowship provides three years of support for graduate study leading to research-based master’s or doctoral degrees and is intended for students who are in the early stages of their graduate study. The Graduate Research Fellowship Program (GRFP) invests in graduate education for a cadre of diverse individuals who demonstrate their potential to successfully complete graduate degree programs in disciplines relevant to the mission of the National Science Foundation.
NSF Website:
http://www.nsf.gov/
Fellowship Benefits and Conditions:
This fellowship provides an annual $30,000 stipend and $10,500 cost-of-education allowance.  Fellows may choose any appropriate, accredited, non-profit United States institution or relevant international institution offering advanced degrees in science, technology, engineering, and mathematics.
Fellows are required to engage  in full-time programs leading to research-based graduate degrees in disciplines supported by the NSF.
Nationality Requirement and E
ligibility:
The NSF Graduate Fellowships are open only to individuals who, at the time of application, are citizens, nationals, or permanent resident aliens of the United States.  Applicants must be in the early stages of graduate study in science, technology, engineering or mathematics.  The NSF supports an extensive number of research areas within these fields which are listed in the Program Announcement available at www.fastlane.nsf.gov/grfp/.
Eligibility is limited to applicants who have completed no more than 12 months of post-baccalaureate, full-time graduate study at the time of their application.
In most cases, an individual has three opportunities to apply:  during the senior year of college, the first year of graduate school, and the beginning of the second year in graduate school.
Important Links for the GRFP:
http://www.nsf.gov/grfp
– Official program announcement and information, information for awarded fellows, FAQ guides, and information for coordinating officials
http://www.fastlane.nsf.gov/grfp/
– Application submission & award announcements
http://www.nsfgrfp.org
– Unofficial program information, applicant assistance & resources, outreach-related issues, panelist registration &
information, and applicant ratings sheet review
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA