Readmissions Information | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Readmissions
Information
Please be advised that students hoping to return to Samueli Engineering should start the below readmission process at minimum 6-8 weeks
BEFORE
the UCLA Readmission Applications deadlines stated below.
If you are former UCLA Samueli Engineering student who is attempting to be readmitted to UCLA, please complete the
Samueli Engineering Readmission Review Request Form.
When filling out the Samueli Engineering Readmission Review Request Form as well as the Undergraduate Readmission Form, please select the major that you were in prior to your leave from UCLA. If you wish to switch majors, you must go through the Change of Major process if you are readmitted in order to be considered for the new major. If you wish to switch to the College of Letters and Science, you must contact the department related to your desired major to obtain their readmission requirements.
The general policy for readmission consideration to Samueli Engineering varies depending on the circumstances for why you left UCLA. Please click on the below choice which most closely fits your case:
If you were a Samueli Engineering student who was was dismissed from UCLA or had been subject to dismissal or on academic probation and hope to be readmitted back into an engineering major (e.g. chemical engineering)
If you are a Samueli Engineering student who was dismissed from UCLA or repeatedly in academic difficulty and hope to be readmitted to a Engineering major, then BEFORE your readmission can be considered you must have: taken at least two terms of a full-time Engineering course load (e.g. 2 of 3 courses in the Math/Science/Engineering/Computer Science subjects) at another school/college/university other than UCLA and earned grades of “A” or “B” for consideration (unless advised otherwise by your OASA Academic Counselor). An online course will only be considered from an institution that has corresponding on-campus offerings of the same course at the same institution. Taking courses at an overseas university will be considered on a case-by-case basis. Taking at least two terms of a full-time Engineering course load for readmission purposes does not guarantee readmission; students may be required more course work beyond the minimum. Students can either choose to do two terms of new work or three terms of remedial material. If you have nothing new to take, you may repeat courses that you need to relearn. HOWEVER, please note that repeating a UCLA course at another school will NOT replace the UCLA grade). Application of all course evaluation results toward Samueli Engineering degree requirements is subject to UC transferability requirements. Courses taken at accredited schools with content that is consistent with that which is offered at UCLA are typically accepted as UC-transferable.
Once your grades for the courses you took have all been posted, please submit your official transcripts for all coursework to:
Cynthia Moraga
UCLA Samueli Engineering OASA
6426 Boelter Hall
405 Hilgard Ave
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1601
Note
: Effective
for students admitted fall 2017 and later
, after completing 105 lower-division quarter units toward the degree in all institutions attended, students are allowed no further unit credit for courses completed at a community college or for lower-division courses completed at any institution outside of the University of California. The University of California does not grant transfer credit for community college or lower-division courses beyond 105 quarter units, but students may still receive subject credit for this coursework to satisfy lower-division requirements. Units earned through Advanced Placement (AP), International Baccalaureate (IB), and/or A-Level examinations are not included in the limitation. Units earned at any UC campus (through extension, summer, cross-campus, UCEAP, Intercampus Visitor Program, and regular academic year enrollment) are not included in the limitation. To convert semester units into quarter units, multiply the semester units by 1.5; for example, 12 semester units x 1.5 = 18 quarter units. To convert quarter units into semester units, multiply the quarter units by .666; for example, 12 quarter units x .666 = 7.99 or 8 semester units.
Students admitted prior to fall 2017
, after completing
70 semester units/ 105 quarter units
toward the degree in
all institutions attended
, students are allowed no further unit credit for courses completed at a community college or for lower division courses completed at any institution outside of the University of California.” However, if you want to review lower division course material it may beneficial for you to take these courses at a community college, but understand that credit will not transfer to UCLA and you are only doing so for material review – if you are considering this consult with an
OASA Counselor
before doing so. You would also need to take additional courses at a 4 yr school (e.g. Cal State) for readmission consideration. If you have
less than 105 units
, you may be able to attend a community college to take courses for readmission.
Refer to
Assist
or
Transferology Lab
for assistance in finding courses that are transferable to UCLA. It is the students job to verify if a course is transferable. If unsure please refer to our
Course Evaluation
process.
If you are a Samueli Engineering student who was not in good academic standing when you last attended UCLA, but were NOT dismissed nor in repeatedly academic difficulty, please complete the Samueli Engineering Review Request Form and then your records will be reviewed to determine readmissions eligibility. Please note that if you were a student who was subject to dismissal when last enrolled at UCLA you may be required to take course work at another school before readmissions is considered.
If you were a Samueli Engineering student who stopped attending UCLA while in good academic standing and hope to be readmitted back into a Samueli Engineering major click here
If you are a Samueli Engineering student who stopped attending UCLA while in
good academic standing
, it may be possible that you will be considered for readmission without being required to take coursework at another school. This is subject to review of your records by Samueli Engineering OASA.
Complete Samueli Engineering Readmissions Review Form
If you were a Samueli Engineering student who wishes to return to UCLA, but to a major OUTSIDE of Samueli Engineering (e.g. Math)
If you are a Samueli Engineering student who wishes to return to UCLA,but to a major OUTSIDE of Engineering (e.g. Math) contact
College Academic Counseling
regarding possible options to be readmitted to the College. If you were in
good academic standing
when you left UCLA, you might be eligible to be readmitted directly to the College. If you were
not in good academic standing
when you left UCLA, you might be required by the College to take courses at another school in order to demonstrate improvement in academic performance before readmission consideration.
Speak directly with a
College Counselor
BEFORE filing for readmission to a non-engineering major.
If you are presently an active continuing UCLA student in a major outside of Samueli Engineering (e.g. chemistry) who wants to change majors into engineering, this is NOT a readmission case, but is a change of major request
Follow the direction on the Samueli Engineering
Change of Major
website.
If you are a student who is an international student
If you are an international student, you are also advised to communicate with the
Dashew Center for International Students and Scholars
about any issues having to do with your visa status, etc.
If you are a Samueli Engineering student who when last enrolled in UCLA had ongoing issues that interfered with your academic performance
If you are a Samueli Engineering student who when last enrolled in UCLA had ongoing issues that interfered with your academic performance
, you will need to file a written appeal explaining how you have made progress to remedy the root cause of the issue. Provide any support materials that help to demonstrate that you are now able to handle a reasonable course load and have the ongoing support needed in order to return to school and be successful.
Additionally, if you are readmitted, you will be encouraged to utilize UCLA services as appropriate to your support needs such as:
Tutoring and Academic Support
https://www.seasoasa.ucla.edu/need-tutoring/
UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center (The Ashe Center)
http://www.studenthealth.ucla.edu/default.aspx
The Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center (The Ashe Center) is devoted to providing quality, accessible, state-of-the-art healthcare and education to support the unique development of UCLA students.
UCLA Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS)
http://www.counseling.ucla.edu/
Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) is a multidisciplinary student mental health center for the UCLA campus.
Dashew Center for International Students and Scholars
http://www.internationalcenter.ucla.edu/
UCLA is home for more than 12,000 international students and scholars away from home. The Dashew Center is the place where domestic and international students and scholars meet. Dashew enhances the UCLA experience for international students and scholars with our multicultural programs and services. It assists UCLA academic departments with visa services and serve as a resource and learning center for the entire UCLA community to promote global connection, international understanding and cultural sensitivity.
UCLA Center for Accessible Education (CAE)
http://www.cae.ucla.edu/
UCLA’s Center for Accessible Education (CAE) facilitates academic accommodations for regularly enrolled, matriculating students with disabilities. T
he CAE provides access to the numerous educational opportunities available to students on our campus and empowers students to realize their academic potential.
AFTER student completes the
Samueli Engineering Readmission Review Request Form
, expect, at minimum, a
two week review period
before student is provided a recommendation on how to proceed with the UCLA Undergraduate Readmission Application. After review, student will be notified by UCLA Message Center if his/her readmission request will be approved.
If a student is approved readmission by Samueli Engineering
, and the student has not been enrolled at UCLA for 2 or more consecutive quarters, the student will further be required to file a
UCLA Undergraduate Readmission Application
*
Students NOT approved readmission by Engineering will be advised as to their options by an OASA Counselor.
*To obtain an electronic undergraduate readmission application, visit the
UCLA Registrar’s
website.
Fill out the editable pdf and send to:
Address:
Cynthia Moraga
UCLA Samueli Engineering OASA
6426 Boelter Hall
405 Hilgard Ave
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1601
Email:
cmoraga@seas.ucla.edu
Registrar’s Office and Samueli Engineering Readmission Deadlines
Registrar’s Office Readmission
Deadlines
UCLA Samueli Engineering Readmission Deadlines
Deadlines
Fall Quarter
August 15
Fall Quarter
June 1
Winter Quarter
November 25
Winter Quarter
October 31
Spring Quarter
February 25
Spring Quarter
January 25
If a deadline falls on a Saturday or Sunday, it is extended to the next business day.
Enrollment begins prior to the readmission deadline which could interfere with your ability to get into the courses you need. Please note that Fall 2023 enrollment begins on 6/22/23, Winter 2024 enrollment begins on 11/09/23, and Spring 2024 enrollment begins in February. These dates all fall before the deadline to apply for readmission and you should also factor in the processing time it takes for your readmission application to be processed, which can sometimes take up to two weeks if and after you are approved. You are not guaranteed into any of your courses once you are readmitted so the earlier you act on your readmission the better your chances are of getting the courses you need.
For more information about absences and readmission please refer to the
UCLA Registrar’s
page. You can find information about declaring non-attendance and standard UCLA rules and guidelines regarding readmission.
For any additional questions or comments send a message to Samueli Engineering Office of Academic and Student Affairs using the information below:
If you have a UCLA logon ID
, please send your inquiry
HERE
If you do NOT have a UCLA logon ID
, please send your inquiry
HERE
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA