UCLA Samueli Scholarships For Undergraduates | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
UCLA Samueli Undergraduate Scholarships
100+ Scholarships Every Year
Explore UCLA Scholarship Opportunities Throughout the Year - Begin with UCLA Academic Works
All 2023-2024 Engineering Scholarship Notifications have gone out.
If you have any questions about anything, please email scholarships@seas.ucla.edu and include your UID.
The Engineering Application Guidelines and Information
will answer most of your application questions.
You can also go here to get a head start on thinking about the 2024-2025 Application.
TIMELINE
General Application opens in March – Currently Opened for the 2023-2024 Academic Year
Engineering Application Questions available – TBD for 2024-2025 Academic Year
Essays and Extra curricular activities reviewed by UCLA Samueli until end of July
Selection begins in August
Once selections are made, notifications will begin rolling out.  There are a many moving pieces to verify with UCLA Financial Aid and Scholarships, which is why the notifications may come out in waves.
All applicants will be notified by the end of September at the latest.
If selected, the Scholarship will be offered in Academic Works.  Upon accepting, students agree to complete a follow-up Donor Questionnaire, write a thank you note to the Donor, and participate in the Scholarship Brunch in Spring Quarter. Details will be provided by External Affairs, post Selection.  Award monies will be disbursed in Fall, Winter and Spring.
Scholarship Writing Workshops offered every year!
Check back when the Engineering Conditional Application is open. The Engineering Essay is a critical component of the Scholarship Applications and can make the difference for the selection committee looking at 2 students who are similar academically.  If you are trying to get a jump on the 2024-2025 Application, you can use the most recent workshop slides and peer review worksheet linked below.
Workshop Slides
Peer Review Worksheet
Additionally, the UCLA Center for Scholarships and Scholar Enrichment
writing consultations available during Fall, Winter, Spring Quarters.  They can assist with identifying additional opportunities and any step of any scholarship application.
Unless otherwise stated, minimum requirements for scholarships are a 3.0 GPA, Extra-Curricular activities and Leadership considered, Financial need considered.
The Engineering Application is only available during a limited window and will only be tied to our engineering scholarships.
The General Application will stay active and match you to awards available at UCLA all year round.
Because of this the General App and the Engineering App each need to be able to stand on their own merit.
Extra Curricular Activities/Community Service
For the Engineering Conditional Application, we want to hear about your top 3 Engineering clubs or community service.   You are limited to a maximum of 3 here, but less is perfectly fine.  If you have additional questions about what you can put here, check out the Guidelines linked below.
For the General Application, if your top 3 engineering clubs are your top 3 overall clubs, then it is fine to duplicate these experiences in the General Application. That being said, if you have other interests and involvement beyond what is specific to engineering, this is a place to highlight them. Doing so could potentially open you up to other scholarship opportunities offered outside of the Samueli School of Engineering.
Engineering Personal Statement vs General Application Personal Statement
For the Engineering Conditional Application, we want you to use our specific prompt that has engineering specific highlights.
For the General Application, you are welcome to use the same essay used for the Engineering Conditional Application, but you do not have to. Using a different essay for the General Application may give you the chance to highlight other interests and passions, which may open you up to other scholarship options outside of what is offered through the Samueli School of Engineering specifically.
These scholarships are administered by the Samueli Office of Academic and Student Affairs (OASA), which is located at 6426 Boelter Hall.
scholarships@seas.ucla.edu
100+ Scholarships Every Year
Click here for list
One easy Application for consideration for multiple awards!
Both Merit & Need based scholarships!
New students, continuing students, international students, and domestic students are all welcome to apply!
Available to all undergraduate Engineering majors and levels!
RESOURCES & INFORMATION
Click each box to open for more details
Scholarship Notifications
Notifications
will happen inside UCLA Academic Works.  If selected for a scholarship, you will be prompted to accept the offered award as well as to complete any additional requirements like a Thank you note for donors, etc.  If you have any questions about this, contact:
scholarships@seas.ucla.edu
.
Other Scholarship Resources
Looking for scholarship information can be a tedious endeavor, but the rewards can be great.
UC/UCLA RESOURCES
PROSPECTIVE STUDENTS:
Begin by visiting the University of California web-site:
Paying-for-UC
UCLA Samueli has a few admission awards. There is no separate application. Award are limited and selection is based on your admission application. If you were awarded an admission award, you will be notified directly via the email provided on your admissions application.
Your local library, high school or community college career center may have additional information about Scholarships, Grants, and Loans.
The UCLA Alumni Center also provides scholarships to prospective and current students. Please visit their website:
UCLA Alumni Association Scholarships
CURRENT STUDENTS
Samueli Scholarship Application (see above)
Additional Engineering and non-engineering related Scholarship resources are available through the
UCLA Center for Scholarships and Scholar Enrichment
, located at 233 Covel Commons. They also provide support and review services for scholarship applications including writing. It is open to all UCLA students regardless of financial aid eligibility. For more information please visit their webpage or call (310)206-2875.
UCLA Financial Aid Office: Scholarships
UCLA Alumni Scholarships for Incoming & Continuing Students
UCLA Chancellor’s Service Award
For a list of ENGINEERING SCHOLARSHIPS OFFERED BY OUTSIDE AGENCIES, click here
We encourage all students to apply for applicable Engineering Scholarships from Outside Agencies. Top students (high cumulative GPA) should consider the National Scholarship opportunities.
Contact the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering
Scholarships (Undergraduate)
Office of Academic and Student Affairs,
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, 6426 Boelter Hall, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1601, (310) 825-9580 Undergraduate Scholarship Coordinator: Flannery Weiss,
scholarships@seas.ucla.edu
Supporting our Mission/Giving to UCLA Samueli
Office of External Affairs,
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, 7256 Boelter Hall, Box 951600, Los Angeles, CA 90095-1600
Fellowships (Graduate Scholarships)
Fellowships for graduate students are handled by the individual departments. Please visit the main engineering page to see
department information
and contact info.
Web-site Information and postings related to undergraduate engineering scholarships:
UCLA Departments and outside agencies who scholarships open to Undergraduate Engineering students may contact
scholarships@seas.ucla.edu
for information about posting a scholarship on this web-site.
For postings related to Undergraduate Research, Job, or Internship opportunities please contact:
William Herrera,
williamh@seas.ucla.edu
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA