Summer Session And Transfer Course Equivalence | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Requesting Transfer Course Equivalence
Information Subject To Change Without Prior Notice
Please note: On occasion students run into issues accessing Workflow, if this occurs we suggest trying these steps:
Log off and log back on
Clear your browser’s cache
Try a different browser
Course Evaluation Request Form
Questions regarding course evaluations can be submitted here
Message Center
We will no longer accept paper copy submissions***
Taking Courses in the USA
Taking Courses Abroad
Course Evaluation
Taking Courses in the USA:
Am I allowed to complete my final graduation requirements at another school?
Of the last 48 units
to be completed for the B.S. degree,
36 units must be earned in residence
in UCLA Samueli School of Engineering on this campus. If you are near graduation and trying to find a course to complete your degree requirements, review the
degree audit
procedures FIRST and keep the degree auditor informed about what you are planning.
Can I take a course at another school while enrolled in a course at UCLA?
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering prohibits concurrent enrollment, and students who take courses at other schools during a term in which they are also enrolled at UCLA will not get credit for the work completed at the other school during Fall, Winter, or Spring quarters. The only exception for this is if a student is to enroll through the
UC Online Program
. Students may concurrently enroll only during Summer Sessions at other institutions.
Am I allowed to take courses at a community college?
For Fall 2017 admits and later: After completing
105 quarter units
toward the degree in all institutions attended, students are allowed no further unit credit for courses completed at a community college. Please note that the
105 units does not include AP, IB, A-levels, etc.
However, you will still receive credit towards fulfilling the degree requirement as long as the course in question has been determined as equivalent to a specific UCLA course or requirement. For example, if you take an equivalent to MATH 33A at a community college but you have already accumulated 105 quarter units at all institutions attended, you will still receive course credit towards MATH 33A, but you will not receive the units that the course is worth at the community college.  But this will still fulfill the MATH 33A requirement towards your engineering degree. Students can meet with an OASA academic counselor to see if they meet eligibility. Be sure to submit the course evaluation form to determine equivalence before taking the course.
If you entered UCLA prior to Fall 2017, please contact your counselor prior to taking any coursework outside of the UC system.
Am I allowed to take courses at another 4-year college or university?
Yes, in many cases you are allowed. You can always take courses at another UC. For Fall 2017 admits and later: After
105 lower division units
, students cannot receive any unit credit for
lower division
courses completed at any institution outside of the University of California. Please note that “lower division” means lower division at the OTHER school. For example, if you take an equivalent to MATH 33A at a college or university outside of the UC system but you have already accumulated 105 quarter units at all institutions attended, you will still receive course credit towards MATH 33A, but you will not receive the units that the course is worth at the community college.  But this will still fulfill the MATH 33A requirement towards your engineering degree, which is the main reason students would want to take a course. You can still receive credits for upper division coursework at another 4-year, even if it is not a UC. If you take a class at another UC it will count towards your GPA. If you take a class at another 4-year college or university outside of the UC’s, it will not count towards your GPA, but you will get units.
If you originally entered UCLA prior to Fall 2017, please contact your counselor before taking any courses outside of the UC system.
If I received a C- or lower in a UCLA course, can I repeat it at another school?
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering students who need or want to
repeat
a UCLA course must repeat the course at UCLA.
Can I take a course through UCLA Extension?
UCLA Extension courses cannot be taken for degree credit. Please see this
memo
from Associate Dean Wesel.
Do the grades I get at another school count towards my UCLA GPA?
Courses taken at another UC school (i.e. UCSB) or via EAP will count towards your UCLA GPA.
Can I take a course pass/no pass at another school?
It is expected that students take required courses and major electives on a letter grade basis (NOT pass/no pass).
Am I allowed to take courses through the UC Online Program?
Yes, a student can take courses through the UC Online Cross Campus Enrollment System (CCES). This allows students to take cross-campus courses online. This is the only time concurrent enrollment is allowed. To view available courses through UCOP click
here.
Is there a way to “untransfer” credit from community college or AP that I am not using for a degree requirement?
No, it is not possible.
Taking Courses Abroad:
How do I start the study abroad process?
Consult with the
EAP Office and/or web site
about your options (i.e. where can you go to take engineering/CS courses, or GE courses, courses for an approved minor, or courses for your own interest, etc) When you have a plan and are ready to start the application process: 1. Get an Academic Planning Form (and other application materials if appropriate) from the EAP office. 2. Look for courses that you could take while abroad at
https://myeap.eap.ucop.edu/Galileo/service/coursecatalog/Coursecatalog.aspx
or the foreign university’s web site and print a detailed course description for each course you want to take. 3. Review your requirements and plan courses, including the UCLA equivalents (or approximate equivalents) for courses you plan to take while on EAP. If you need assistance, schedule an appointment with your
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering academic counselor
, in MyUCLA.
4. Am I required to meet with an engineering counselor before going abroad?
You can schedule an appointment to work with a counselor to check your degree progress, requirements and courses abroad. 5. Make sure to also submit a course evaluation request to make sure that courses will satisfy a UCLA requirement. 6. Submit all required paperwork to the EAP Office.
7.
How long does it take for my grades from EAP to show up in my DARS audit?
*Returning from EAP*
– Credit for courses taken abroad will be automatically posted to your Degree Progress Report (DPR) or Degree Audit by Undergraduate Admissions, however this may take up to two months.  You are advised to contact the engineering credit evaluators through
Message Center
when the credit appears on your DPR or Degree Audit so that engineering may appropriately update credit for approved course evaluations.
Non-UC Education Abroad Programs:
Students who wish to study abroad in non-UC Education Abroad Programs should:
Visit the International Education Office (
http://www.ieo.ucla.edu/nonucprograms/
B-300 Murphy Hall) for information.
Can a course taken through non-UC EAP Travel Study count towards my UCLA requirements?
Students are cautioned of the possibility that non-UC EAP study abroad coursework may not be accepted as transferable and thus not applied to their degree requirements. You should always have a course evaluated before you take courses abroad. It is recommend that you try to confirm with Admissions or Registrar’s Office whether units will be granted upon completion.
Why doesn’t my study abroad credit satisfy any requirements in my DARS audit?
First, the course needs to be evaluated. If this has already been completed, then you need to check if credit for the course(s) has been posted to your DARS audit. If so, contact the course evaluation team (via Message Center) so that the credit can be updated correctly.
Do the grades I earn during study abroad affect my UCLA GPA?
Courses taken via EAP will affect your UCLA GPA.
How long does it take for my grades from EAP to show up in my DARS audit?
Credit for courses taken abroad will be automatically posted to your Degree Progress Report (DPR) or Degree Audit by Undergraduate Admissions, however this may take up to two months.  You are advised to contact the engineering credit evaluators through
Message Center
when the credit appears on your DPR or Degree Audit so that engineering may appropriately update credit for approved course evaluations.
Where can I find EAP programs for engineering majors?
For information regarding featured programs for engineering majors, including engineering sub-disciplines for each of the listed programs, programs in English, scholarships, and detailed information about engineering research and internship opportunities, please view the
UCEAP Engineering Page
.
Can a course taken through non-UC EAP Travel Study count towards my UCLA requirements?
Students are cautioned of the possibility that non-UC EAP study abroad coursework may not be accepted as transferable and thus not applied to their degree requirements. You should always have a course evaluated before you take courses abroad. It is recommend that you try to confirm with Admissions or Registrar’s Office whether units will be granted upon completion.
Which quarter(s) do engineering students commonly study abroad?
Fall or Summer.
Am I required to meet with an engineering counselor before going abroad?
You can schedule an appointment to work with a counselor to check your degree progress, requirements and courses abroad.
Course Evaluation:
How do I know which courses at a community college are equivalent to UCLA courses?
Transferology: Students can use Transferology to see articulations that have been established for various courses at community colleges and 4-year universities.
Transferology.com
has information about the transferability of
lower division and some upper division engineering
courses from
California community colleges
to UC campuses. (For community colleges outside of California, follow the course evaluation steps). CAUTION: Please always double check with the respective UCLA department and/or your academic counselor. For GE Requirements,
go to Transferology
Click on the school you wish to attend [continue] Click on UC transferable courses [continue] Choose a department, or “all departments” [continue]
Code
Category
UC-H
Humanities (including Visual & Performance Arts Analysis & Practice, Literary & Cultural Analysis, and Philosophical & Linguistic Analysis: match by title to a UCLA course in that category)
UC-B
Social Science (including Historical Analysis and Social Analysis: match by title to a UCLA course in that category)
UC-S
Physical and Life Science (i.e. biology, physiological science) It is not necessary for a course to be an exact equivalent of a UCLA course to be acceptable as a GE course.  If you are unsure about whether a course will satisfy a UCLA Samueli School of Engineering GE requirement, please submit a Course Evaluation Request Form.  Allow at least one week for GE course evaluation results to be emailed to you. Credit for writing courses (English 3 and 4W) is determined by the Office of Undergraduate Admissions in 1147 Murphy Hall.
IMPORTANT NOTE:
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering does not accept courses in
Logic
or
Critical Thinking
as GE courses.
For
LOWER DIVISION Math, Physics, Chemistry, Life Science, Programming, Statistics Courses
:
Go to
Transferology
CAUTION: Please always double check with the respective UCLA department and/or your academic counselor to make sure the articulations are updated and
include a date range
. Under “Select an institution” choose the school you want to attend [continue] Under “Agreements between two campuses” select UCLA [continue] Under “By Major” select your major [continue]
Note
: at many community colleges, a combination of courses may be required to satisfy one UCLA course.
How can I find out if a course is equivalent if it’s not listed on Transferology.com or if I am looking for a course at another 4-year school?
If any courses in this category do not show up on Transferology.com, turn in a copy of the course outline or syllabus (including topics covered and textbook(s) used) to the respective undergraduate counseling office. Math – 6356 Mathematical Sciences Building Physics – 1-707A Physics and Astronomy Building Chemistry – 4006 Young Hall Life Science – 222 Hershey Hall Statistics – 8117A Mathematical Sciences Building English Composition – 146 Humanities Building Please also see the appropriate department to determine if a course at another 4-year school will satisfy a UCLA degree requirement. If the course(s) are deemed equivalent, obtain written verification of this from the department office and submit the verification, along with your name and student I.D. number to
Message Center
. Please submit Course Evaluation Request Forms and allow at least three weeks for the results to be emailed to you. Transferology: all UCLA students can use their UCLA logon to use Transferology and see articulations that have been established for various courses at community colleges and 4-year universities.
How long does the evaluation process take?
Evaluation of GE courses takes about a week. Evaluation of engineering/CS courses take at least 4 weeks*, and in some cases may be tentative. Please plan accordingly. In such cases, final evaluation will be based on course materials provided by you after you complete the course. You will get an email from a “DoNotReply” alias when the evaluation is done. While you are abroad, direct questions about courses to the Course Evaluation Team can be submitted through
Message Center
. *We do our best to complete evaluations in a timely manner. We appreciate your patience as we work with faculty.
**Due to the high volume of course evaluation requests OASA has been receiving, students are limited to submitting a maximum of four courses for evaluation at a time.**
NOTE:
No more than 5 courses completed while on UC-EAP or non-UC EAP may be applied to major requirements (i.e. engineering, computer science, technical electives from other departments)
Effective for students studying abroad during 2005-2006 and later
Where can I find additional discussion sheets for the course evaluation form?
The discussion sheet has been discontinued. If you have any additional remarks regarding your evaluation request, please include it in the body of your email.
How can I find out if a course is equivalent if it’s not listed on Transferology.com or if I am looking for a course at another 4-year school?
If any courses in this category do not show up on Transferology.com, turn in a copy of the course outline or syllabus (including topics covered and textbook(s) used) to the respective undergraduate counseling office. Math – 6356 Mathematical Sciences Building Physics – 1-707A Physics and Astronomy Building Chemistry – 4006 Young Hall Life Science – 222 Hershey Hall Statistics – 8117A Mathematical Sciences Building English Composition – 146 Humanities Building Please also see the appropriate department to determine if a course at another 4-year school will satisfy a UCLA degree requirement. If the course(s) are deemed equivalent, obtain written verification of this from the department office and submit the verification, along with your name and student I.D. number to
Message Center
. Please submit Course Evaluation Request Forms and allow at least three weeks for the results to be emailed to you. Transferology: all UCLA students can use their UCLA logon to use Transferology and see articulations that have been established for various courses at community colleges and 4-year universities.
Can I fulfill a degree requirement with a high school course?
You will not be granted credit for any course or exam for which no units have been assigned (i.e. high school courses). Any course that counted towards your high school requirement, may not be used as credit at UCLA.
Where can I find a list of the courses that have previously been evaluated for equivalency?
There is not an existing public list. You can contact your counselor in OASA for feedback, and review this site for details on submitting a course evaluation. Transferology (
transferology.com
) also includes a few engineering core courses that you may take at a community college if you have completed less than 105 units. CAUTION: Please always double check with the respective UCLA department and/or your academic counselor. Please submit Course Evaluation Request Forms to
Workflow on MyUCLA
and allow at least three to four weeks for the results to be emailed to you. Transferology: all UCLA students can use their UCLA logon to use Transferology and see articulations that have been established for various courses at community colleges and 4-year universities.
What are the steps to receive credit for a course I took at another school?
For credit to be applied to UCLA Samueli School of Engineering degree requirements, you
must
submit transcripts, AP credit, and evaluation materials
before
the end of your first term at UCLA after completing the work.
Make sure the course has already been evaluated.
Where do I submit transcripts after I have completed the course(s)?
When you complete your summer (or other transfer work, such as EAP) please have an official electronic transcript emailed to erkki@seas.ucla.edu
Undergraduate Admissions will post the course credit to your DPR or Degree Audit automatically.  However, this can take a while.  You should contact the engineering credit evaluators through
Message Center
when you see that the credit appears on your DPR or Degree Audit. Then the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering credit evaluators will update our records with any course evaluations or petitions we have approved for the courses taken.
If your school does not have electronic transcripts available, please have official paper copies mailed to :
Erkki Corpuz
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering
6426 Boelter Hall
405 Hilgard Ave
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1601
Housing
Class Schedule
UCLA Samueli School of Engineering
Fees
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA