Engineering Tours | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Engineering Tours
Engineering Tour Experience
The Engineering Ambassador program is pleased to offer tours for prospective UCLA engineering students and visitors to explore the Samueli School of Engineering. Visitors will be able to tour the Engineering and Physical Science buildings and interact directly with current Samueli Engineering undergraduate students to learn more about the school and its programs. Each of the tours will last approximately one hour with visits to our student maker spaces (subject to availability), information about our over various engineering organizations, student-led projects, and the opportunity to ask questions about student life and the admissions process.  Please note that we are not able to take tour groups into research labs for safety and security reasons.
Meet our 2023-24 UCLA Samueli School of Engineering Ambassadors
INDIVIDUALS OR FAMILIES (5 OR FEWER)
Please click on the link below to sign up for a tour. Use the link below the sign-in boxes to create an account with our system.  Note: Tours must be made at least 48 hours in advance, and at most 30 days in advance. We do not have tours during finals week (the week beginning 3/18/24) or during the Spring Break (3/23/24 until 3/31/24)
http://tours.engineering.ucla.edu
LARGE GROUPS (10 OR MORE)
If your tour group is larger than 10 people, you must send a tour request via email to
seas.tour.ucla@gmail.com
a minimum of 5 days in advance.  Tour groups larger than 10 people that are scheduled through the link for individuals or families instead of the above email may be cancelled if we do not have enough tour guides to accommodate the large group, so please request a tour by email. We do not have tours during finals week (the week beginning 3/18/24) or during the Spring Break (3/23/24 until 3/31/24)
Please note that our tours are only available Monday-Friday.  There are no tours on weekends, during Finals Week, University holidays, or campus closures.  See the campus calendar
here
.
Make sure to allot enough time to drive to the UCLA campus, find parking, and walk over to the meeting place in front of Boelter Hall.  It can take an extra 20-30 minutes after you drive onto campus to find parking and walk over to Boelter Hall, so please plan accordingly.  The tours will leave promptly at the listed time.
NOTE: When creating a profile, please choose the LOS ANGELES TIME ZONE as all tour times and availability are listed in the local Los Angeles time.
The UCLA Undergraduate Admission office also offers general campus tours. To get the full UCLA experience, we highly recommend scheduling both an Engineering tour and a campus tour.  To register for a general UCLA campus tour, click
here
Read about some of our current and former Engineering Ambassadors featured in the
UCLA Samueli Newsroom
Sasha Grishchenko
, Chemical Engineering ’23
Anjali Koganti
, Aerospace Engineering ’24
Aleksandra Dudek
, Mechanical Engineering ’23
Annie Zhao
, Materials Engineering ’21
Anneliese Peterson
, Aerospace Engineering ’21
Claire Killian
, Civil Engineering ’20
Annika Mellquist
, Civil Engineering ’22
Annika Mellquist
, Civil Engineering ’22
Melody Young
, Materials Engineering ’18
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA