Undergraduate Internship Program | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
The purpose of the Undergraduate Internship Program is to support and facilitate students to search and secure their first industry internship.
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
Percentage of 2022 graduating seniors who completed an internship by graduation
87%
87%
About
The Undergraduate Internship Program (UIP)
is a new initiative from the UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science to assist Samueli Engineering students by providing resources, information, and opportunities.
UIP hosts multiple workshops throughout the year to better prepare students for securing an internship, offers a seminar class further breaking down the internship process (ENGR 23: Finding an Industry Internship Seminar Course, runs a Consolidated On-Campus Recruitment Calendar and highlights job and internship postings and recruiting events in weekly email blasts to Samueli undergraduates.
Get to know this year’s team of peer advisors with the adjacent link!
Meet the Team
Book a Peer Advising Appointment
Join Drop-In Advising Zoom
Winter 2024 Events (Week 7)
Bureau of Ocean Energy Management: Inspiring Women in STEM Panel
Time: Tuesday, February 20, 11 AM-12 PM
Location:
Virtual
This panel is an opportunity to listen and to interact with five of BOEM’s most influential and inspiring women who have turned challenges into stepping stones for success. It’s a chance to gain invaluable insights into the perseverance and dedication required to excel in STEM disciplines. Whether you’re a student contemplating a future in STEM, a professional seeking to pivot into a new field, or simply someone looking for a dose of inspiration, this panel is for you.
Medline Interview Workshop
Time: Tuesday, February 20, 1:30-2:30 PM
Location:
Virtual
Does the thought of interviewing make you nervous? Do you wish you had insight on how to prepare for your interview? Medline’s Campus Recruiters understand interviewing can be daunting and we are excited to help you gain all the tools to succeed as you prep for interviews! We invite you to our Spring Series: Interview Workshop webinar where you will hear directly from Medline Campus Recruiters on: • How to prepare for an interview • What to expect in an interview • Dos & Don’ts after the interview. Medline is the largest privately held manufacturer and distributor of medical supplies in the United States, with over 36,000 employees worldwide and business in more than 125 countries.
World Wide Technology Information Session
Time: Wednesday February 21, 3-4 PM
Location:
Virtual
Learn about World Wide Technology’s award-winning internship and early talent programs. WWT works in the areas of cloud computing, computer security, data centers, data analytics and artificial intelligence, computer networks, application software development, cell phone carrier networking, and consulting services.
Core Workshop: The Art of Networking
Time: Friday, February 23, 11 AM-12 PM
Location: Strathmore Building Room 200
Do you want to be magnetic in a professional landscape? Do you want to WOW recruiters with your interpersonal skills and personal brand? Do you want to land that job at your top company? Well, you have come to the right place! By the end of this workshop, you’ll feel confident and well-prepared to establish lasting connections and seize new opportunities in your professional life.
Boeing – Business and Engineering Info Session
Time: Monday, February 26, 10-11 AM
Location: Carnesale Commons
RSVP:
Virtual
Boeing will be discussing their 2024 business and engineering internship and entry level opportunities during this virtual information session.
SWE Non Traditional Engineering Pathways Panel
Time: Tuesday, February 27, 6:30-7:30 PM
RSVP:
Google Form
If you are interested in seeing non-traditional careers with engineering degrees come join our virtual panel with UCLA alumni!
Here from their personal stories on how they decided to pursue their paths and ask questions during the Q&A.
Epic DEI Info Session
Time: Tuesday, March 5, 12-1 PM
Location:
Virtual
Epic is excited to invite you to our upcoming employer information session, where students from diverse backgrounds can explore a wide array of exciting career opportunities within our company. Epic is a healthcare software company headquartered in Madison, WI, with customers in all 50 states and even internationally. We design, build, and implement applications for everything from hospital scheduling to supporting medical specialties to hospital billing. By attending this session, you will have the opportunity to gain insights into our company’s inclusive workforce that reflects the rich diversity of our global community.
Transfer Student Career Center Pop Ins
Time: Wednesday February 28, 1-3 PM
Location: Kerckhoff Hall – Transfer Center Room
RSVP:
https://app.joinhandshake.com/stu/events/1458381?ref=events-search
Drop-in for a 1:1, 15-minute career advising appointment at the Transfer Student Center (TSC)! The Career Center will be popping in the TSC throughout the quarter to support transfer students with the topics listed below. Stop by to speak to the Career Center about your career journey! Drop-In Topics: • Resume + Cover Letter Review • Career Exploration • Graduate and Professional School • Networking
Career Center Pop In Hours
Time: Wednesdays 1-3 PM
Location: 6288 Boelter Conference Room
Pop in to UCLA Engineering x Career Center advising hours to ask any career related questions, whether it’s how to secure a job or internship, how to perfect your resume and elevator pitch, or how to prepare for recruitment events. This is open to all engineering undergraduates and will be hosted by Wendy Nix, MBA and Assistant Director of Career Education and Development at the UCLA Career Center. See below for flyer, no appointments required!
Winter Student Organizations & Activities Platform (WSOAP)
WINTER 2024 SITE IS LIVE!! Click
here
to explore engineering orgs at UCLA.
This platform seeks to connect students, particularly first years and transfers, to engineering organizations. Check out the general Winter opportunities and specific Transfer opportunities to get involved! More information can be found
here
.
Consolidated On-Campus Recruitment Calendar
ENGR 23: Finding an Industry Internship Seminar
ENGR 23 is a new course designed to assist undergraduates in securing an internship offered this fall.
Take a look at the
Winter 2021 ENGR 23 Syllabus.
ENGR 26: Finding an Entry Level Job Seminar
ENGR 26 is a new course designed to assist undergraduates in securing an entry level job offered this winter.
Take a look at the
Winter 2022 ENGR 26 Syllabus
.
Undergraduate Advising
Drop-In Peer Advising
Spring drop-in advising sessions are open! Appointments can be requested
here
.
You can also drop in to our advising room on Zoom
here
.
Career Center Advising
Drop-in Advising
(Virtual and In-person)
Visit the Career Center virtual drop-in room or come the Career Center in-person located at the Strathmore Building, 2nd floor. You will be able to get help with resume/cover letter reviews and job and internship questions.
Hours
Tuesday-Thursday
10:00am-2:00pm
Access Virtual Drop-In Sessions
Engineering Faculty Advising
Here's a link to the
Engineering Faculty Advising Resources Page!
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA