Undergraduate Admissions | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Undergraduate Admissions
Freshman Applicants
Freshman applications are accepted for Fall ONLY
Fall
2024
: UC will open the 2024-25 application for undergraduate admission on August 1, 2023.  Applications can only be submitted between Oct. 1 – Nov. 30.
Admission as a Freshman
UC will open the 2024-25 application for undergraduate admission on August 1, 2023 to give students more time to complete their applications.
Applicants can still only submit the application between Oct. 1 – Nov. 30.
Freshman applicants to the Samueli School of Engineering must first meet the minimum eligibility requirements for the University including the subject and scholarship requirements. Official information about UC eligibility requirements may be found at
http://www.universityofcalifornia.edu/admissions/welcome.html
. This site also includes the complete UC application form, and information about fees and deadlines.
Because admission to HSSEAS is competitive, merely meeting the minimum eligibility requirements of the University is rarely sufficient for admission to an engineering major.  Engineering applicants should use their application to highlight their interest and capacity for success in STEM subjects and mathematics in particular.
Applications must be filed during the month of November for enrollment the following September.
The
UCLA Undergraduate Admission Office
maintains an excellent web site for prospective students, that includes admission information, the UCLA General Catalog, graduation statistics, tours, and other information. Important information for
international students
is also available at the UCLA admissions web site as well.
General Undergraduate Admissions Information
General information about the programs offered by the Samueli School of Engineering is available in the
HSSEAS Announcement
. You may apply to any UC campus with one application,
online
. California residents may also obtain an application at their high schools or community colleges.
Policy
for current UCLA students
Change of Major to and within HSSEAS
Transfer Applicants
Admission as a Junior Transfer
(
top of page
)
UC will open the 2024-25 application for undergraduate admission on August 1, 2023 to give students more time to complete their applications.
Applicants can still only submit the application between Oct. 1 – Nov. 30.
Admission to an engineering major as a junior level transfer is also quite competitive. The University requires applicants to have completed a minimum of 60 transferable semester units (90 quarter units) and two transferable English courses, prior to enrolling at UCLA. In addition, to be considered, all applicants to Samueli Engineering majors must have at least a 3.4 GPA for their college work. Many of the majors in the Samueli School of Engineering are impacted. Excellent grades, especially for courses in preparation for the major, are expected.  All courses that are to be applied towards the major, whether they are core requirements or electives, must be taken for a letter grade.  General education courses may be taken Pass/No Pass if your current institution allows it.
Transfer applicants who apply to majors outside of Engineering will not be allowed to change to a HSSEAS major once admissions decisions have been released.  B
ecause they are severely impacted majors, it is not possible for transfer students, even those admitted as engineering majors, to
change
into the majors
of
Computer Science,
Computer Science & Engineering, Aerospace, or Mechanical Engineering
.
Completion of the required courses in
preparation for the major
is critical for admission. Articulation agreements between California Community Colleges and UCLA’s Samueli School of Engineering include college specific course numbers for these requirements and can be found on
ASSIST
.
Advanced Placement (AP) exam credit may be used to satisfy some graduation requirements.  A score of 5 on the AP Calculus AB exam may be used to satisfy Math 31A.  A score of 4 on the AP Calculus BC exam may be used to satisfy Math 31A. A score of 5 on the AP Calculus BC exam satisfies Math 31A and may be used to satisfy Math 31B.  International Baccalaureate (IB) credit may also be used to satisfy some graduation requirements, pending formal review by the UCLA math department after matriculation.  You must submit materials to the UCLA math department that prove that you scored a 6 or higher on the Math higher level (HL) exam and that you covered topics 1-6 and 9 in order to receive credit for 31A and 31B.
The
UCLA Admission Office
maintains an excellent web site for prospective students that includes admission information, the UCLA General Catalog, graduation statistics, tours, and other information. Important information for
international students
is also available at the UCLA admissions web site as well.
Effective Fall 2005 the Samueli School of Engineering has changed its GE requirement. The complete requirement is shown below.  We recommend that transfer applicants complete, in addition to the two required English composition courses, 2-3 electives from those listed below. You must complete at least one course from Social and Behavioral Science or Arts and Humanities to be eligible for admission.
We accept full
IGETC
certification, but it is not required for admission.
To graduate from UCLA, you must have completed the following in addition to all major and school-specific requirements:
one course equivalent to UCLA’s English Composition 3 (generally found as Writing 1A or Writing I. May also be satisfied by a score of 4 or higher on AP English Language or English Literature)
one Writing II composition course (generally Writing 1B or Writing II)
one Engineering Ethics course, to be taken at UCLA
one life science elective (not required for Bioengineering, Chemical Engineering, and Civil Engineering majors) (select one from Biological Science, lab not required)
Two electives from Foundations of Society and Culture: one from Historical Analysis and one from Social Analysis (select two courses from Social and Behavioral Science)
Two electives from Foundations of Arts and Humanities: one from each of two chosen groups: the groups are Visual and Performance Art, Literature and Cultural Analysis Philosophical and Linguistic Analysis (select two courses from Arts and Humanities)
For questions about Samueli School of Engineering admissions policies contact us
here
.
Housing
|
Class Schedule
|
HSSEAS
|
Fees
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA