Undergraduate Research Program | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
The purpose of the Undergraduate Research Program is to support undergraduate students currently conducting research in communicating and publishing their work.
Follow
Follow
Follow
Follow
Percentage of 2022 graduating seniors who participated in research by graduation
25%
25%
About
The Undergraduate Research Program is a new initiative from the UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science to develop first-in-class research opportunities that lead to undergraduates who are well-informed about engineering career opportunities in both academic and corporate settings.
UCLA Samueli boasts some of the world’s top researchers working at the forefront of technological innovation. In collaboration with multiple UCLA schools as well as universities around the globe, the UCLA Henry Samueli School of Engineering and Applied Science is leading initiatives that have the potential to change our world.
URP has two programs – the academic year program and the summer program.
There are 8 peer advisors between UIP and URP.
Get to know this year’s team of peer advisors
here
!
Program Components
URP spans the academic year and consists of several workshops and activities.
Technical Presentation Lab
Poster Workshops
Undergraduate Research Week Poster Day
Professional Development Workshops and Industry Info-Sessions
End of Year Awards Reception
Program Benefits
Master various skills, including deciphering technical journal articles and communicating research findings.
Advising on securing paid research or industry positions.
Network with industry representatives in an intimate setting.
Be recognized for your research and receive an official certificate signed by the Dean.
Qualify for a $750 award for Best Poster and/or Best Presentation.
URP Winter Research Fair (
RSVP
)
How to Maximize Your Research Fair Experience
Attending Labs
(Click
here
to see lab details)
Large Language Model for Knowledge Reasoning: (
ScAi)
)
Voltage Imaging System Development for Head-Fixed Behaving Mice: Data Processing (
Golshani Lab
)
Ferrobotic (
I2BL
)
Long-Duration Autonomy, Mapping, and Multi-Robot Coordination (
Verifiable and Control-Theoretic Robotics Laboratory
)
Atrus (
Trustworthy AI Lab
)
LLM analytics and Multimodal learning on heterogeneous sensor data (
NESL
)
EV (
SMERC
)
Soft bioelectronics for neuromodulation and biomarker monitoring (
I2BL
)
Cardiovascular Diagnostics using Ferrobotics Platform (
Di Carlo Lab
)
Agriculture Weed-Control Robot (
Structures-Computer Interaction Lab
)
Multimodal LLM, Protein modification prediction, Corp yield prediction, Cell aging prediction from gene expression, Privacy in LLM (
ScAi
)
USDOT-JPO Data Program Research (
UCLA Mobility Lab
)
Orthopaedic and Implant Research (
JVL Orthopaedic Research Center
)
Mechanical logic and circuits for origami robots (
Laboratory for Embedded Machines & Ubiquitous Robots
)
AI Assurance and LLM Metacognition (
eHealth Research and Analytics Lab
)
Collective behavior of autonomous underwater/mobile robot (
Structures-Computer Interaction Lab
)
Training verifiably robust/safe/stable neural networks; Simulation-based Inference for Crystal Growth; Evaluating Non-uniform generalization bounds in quantum machine learning (
Computational Machine Learning
)
Flash Cooling for High Heat Flux Thermal Management (
Nanoscale Transport Research Group
)
Data Mining with Large Language Models (
Data Mining Lab
)
Development of dynamic nucleic acid systems and motifs (
Dynamic Nucleic Acid Systems Lab
)
Risk Assessment Projects (
Risk Institute
)
Sensing and Robotics for Infrastructure Lab (
SRI Lab
)
UCLA CAM REU Topics (
Undergraduate summer REU program
)
3D Electrochemical Impedance Spectroscopy for Assessment of Atherosclerotic Lesions During Complex Percutaneous Coronary Intervention (
UCLA Cardiovascular Engineering Research Laboratory
)
Flyers
Winter 2024 Events (Week 7)
Winter Research Fair
Time: Tuesday, February 20, 5-7 PM
Location: Engineering IV Lobby
RSVP:
https://forms.gle/mVvcfNjgxpWyGsNP7
Save the date for the winter quarter research fair! Many different engineering research labs across a variety of disciplines will be present and looking to recruit undergraduates like you! This is a great chance to learn more about multiple labs and network to gain a research position.
Winter Drop-In Advising
Winter drop-in advising sessions are now virtual and in person!
To make an appointment, complete the
pre-advising questionnaire
.
You can also drop in to our advising room on Zoom
here
.
Winter Student Organizations & Activities Platform (WSOAP)
WINTER 2024 SITE IS LIVE!! Click
here
to explore engineering orgs at UCLA.
This platform seeks to connect students, particularly first years and transfers, to engineering organizations. Check out the general Winter opportunities and specific Transfer opportunities to get involved! More information can be found
here
.
ENGR 24: Finding an Undergraduate Research Opportunity Seminar
ENGR 24 is a new course designed to help engineering students secure their first research position!
This course is offered in the Spring quarter.
Take a look at the syllabus:
Spring 2023 ENGR 24 Syllabus
Winter 2023 Infosession Recording
Interested in research?
Want to get involved in a research lab?
Come to our quarterly research fair!
This is an opportunity for students to network with participating labs from UCLA.
All majors are welcome!
Check out the flyer on this page for more details!
Quarterly Research Fair
We will now be having a URP Research Fair every quarter!
Our Winter Research Fair will take place Tuesday, February 20, 5-7 PM in the Engineering IV Lobby
This event will be a great opportunity to network with engineering research labs interested in recruiting undergraduates just like you! Attending labs will each have a booth to talk with students about their research and how you can get involved. We have limited student sign-up slots available due to venue constraints, so RSVP ASAP if you are interested!
If you have any questions please email
urp@seas.ucla.edu
!
Publishing Research
The Undergraduate Research Program hosts many talented and bright scholars.
Click this link to see the journal publications of our students!
Are you interested in publishing your research? Please visit the
application website here!
Research Opportunities
Summer Undergraduate Research Program 2024
Currently looking for research, or already in a lab? The Summer Undergraduate Research Program (SURP) is an umbrella program that scaffolds summer undergraduate research opportunities at UCLA Samueli
Engineering, including Research Experience for Undergraduates (REU). SURP is an 8-week or 10-week program and runs from June 24 to August 30 for Summer 2024.
Visit this
website
for more information about the program.
Resources & Links
Finding a Research Lab
Research Openings
(mostly at other universities)
Research Postings Archive
Pathways to Science
(national database of research opportunities supported by NSF)
UCLA Research Portal
(on-campus)
UCLA Undergraduate Research Center – Sciences
Other Research Programs and Opportunities
Getting course credit for research
Enrolling in a research-based course (94, 194, 199)
Type of Research at UCLA Samueli
UCLA Engineering’s Six Critical Areas of Research
Research Centers and Institutes
Faculty Expertise Directory
Departmental Research Pages
Bioengineering
Chemical Engineering
Civil and Environmental Engineering
Computer Science
Electrical and Computer Engineering
Materials Science and Engineering
Mechanical Engineering
Summer Undergraduate Research Program (SURP)
SURP is URP’s summer session counterpart. The program encompasses all summer research that occurs at UCLA, whether it’s an REU site or independent faculty lab research. To learn more about the Summer Undergraduate Scholars Program or apply, click on the title.
Undergraduate Advising
Drop-In Peer Advising
Spring drop-in advising sessions are open! Appointments can be requested
here
.
You can also drop in to our advising room on Zoom
here
.
Career Center Advising
Drop-in Advising
(Virtual and In-person)
Visit the Career Center virtual drop-in room or come the Career Center in-person located at the Strathmore Building, 2nd floor. You will be able to get help with resume/cover letter reviews and job and internship questions.
Hours
Tuesday-Thursday
10:00am-2:00pm
Access Virtual Drop-In Sessions
Engineering Faculty Advising
Here's a link to the
Engineering Faculty Advising Resources Page!
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA