Wellness Support | OASA
Select Page
Search for:
X
Wellness Support
Counseling and Psychological Services
The UCLA Samueli School of Engineering continues to partner with Counseling and Psychological Services (CAPS) to support your mental health needs as you pursue your academic goals. CAPS offer mental health services to every registered Bruin including short-term individual therapy, group therapy, psychiatric care, referrals, and other specialty services.
For more information, please visit the CAPS website: https://www.counseling.ucla.edu/
To get connected with a CAPS counselor or to get general information about CAPS services,
please call CAPS at (310) 825-0768. You can also refer to https://counseling.ucla.edu/services/
make-an-appointment for more information about how to make an appointment at CAPS.
CAPS @ Engineering Satellite Drop-In Hours
Engineering CAPS Satellite Flyer
Eve Zheng, Licensed Marriage and Family Therapist
CAPS Triage Clinician and CAPS @ Engineering Satellite Therapist
Weeks 5-10
Wednesdays, 10 am – 12 pm (Virtual Only)
• Zoom Meeting ID: 933 5983 1572
• Passcode: 327050
Fridays, 1 pm – 3 pm (In-person Only)*
• Boelter Hall, 6288-G
*exception Week 9 (03/08/2024); drop-in hours will be virtual on 03/08/2024.
CAPS @ Engineering Satellite Drop-in Hours offers free, confidential, brief support for students
within the School of Engineering via Zoom or in person. During a Drop in session, you can
speak to a licensed therapist to:
• Access brief mental health support
• Explore mental health resources and options
• Be referred to further mental health services through CAPS
• Discuss other relevant resources
To visit the CAPS @ Engineering Drop-In Hours, it is recommended that you call CAPS at
310-825-0768 to schedule an appointment. Alternatively, you can show up to the Zoom/in-person meeting room during the Drop-In hours without a pre-scheduled appointment and be seen on a first-come, first served basis.
Additional Wellness Support:
Be Well Bruin
Find support, resources, and tools to be the best you
The RISE Center
A wellness hub for all students, faculty, and staff who want to find encouragement through mindfulness and resiliency. This hub is called Resilience in the Student Experience (RISE) and is located on campus, downstairs at Lu Valle Commons room B-01. RISE serves as a physical extension of CAPS, and as part of its programming, RISE offers meditations, yoga, peer coaching, and other mind-body modalities.
Dashew Services
for International Students
Throughout your journey at UCLA and in The U.S., it is very common to use counseling and psychological support to get support and understanding. UCLA offers a series of programs and services that are designed to foster the development of healthy well-being necessary for success in a complex global environment. While the transition to UCLA can be an exciting challenge, it is normal that some of our students may be coping with personal, financial, health, and other stressors
WAZO CONNECT Peer Mentorship Program
Wazo Connect is a peer mentorship program centered around improving mental health at UCLA. As a mentor, you are trained under CAPS, CARE, and LGBTQ and then paired with a mentee where you will undergo a 6-week program to provide them with the mental health support they need. This program works in tandem with bi-weekly wellness events that promote self-care and mental health education.
CAPS Community and Online Therapeutic Resources
CAPS provides more services and resources on its website.
Togetherall
Togetherall is a safe, anonymous, online peer to peer community for mental health support.
Join our free online community, supported by mental health professionals 24/7.
Additional  Support Services:
UCLA Center for Accessible Education (CAE)
UCLA’s Center for Accessible Education (CAE) facilitates academic accommodations for regularly enrolled, matriculating students with disabilities. The CAE provides access to the numerous educational opportunities available to students on our campus and empowers students to realize their academic potential.
UCLA  Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center (The Ashe Center)
is devoted to providing quality, accessible, state-of-the-art healthcare and education to support the unique development of UCLA students.
Dashew Center for International Students and Scholars
UCLA is home to more than 12,000 international students and scholars away from home. The Dashew Center is the place where domestic and international students and scholars meet. Dashew enhances the UCLA experience for international students and scholars with our multicultural programs and services. It assists UCLA academic departments with visa services and serve as a resource and learning center for the entire UCLA community to promote global connection, international understanding, and cultural sensitivity.
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA