Featured Research Collection — The Civil Rights Project at UCLA
Personal tools
Skip to content.
|
Skip to navigation
Search Site
only in current section
Advanced Search…
Sections
Home
News
Events
Research
Legal Developments
Resources
About Us
Support Our Research
Donate to the Civil Rights Project.
Quick Links
Contact Us
Mailing List Sign-up
Media Coverage of CRP
Center for Civil Rights Remedies
Project SOL 2.0
Follow us...
Facebook
YouTube
Twitter
Spotlight on...
The School Voucher Illusion:  Exposing the Pretense of Equity
, edited by Kevin Welner, Gary Orfield and Luis A. Huerta, is available from Teachers College Press.
You
are here:
Home
→
Featured Research Collection
Info
Featured Research Collection
Featured Research Collection used by front page.
New Data show CA school administrators dramatically increased disciplinary exclusion of homeless youth to highest rate in 6 years
Research does not support the long-standing practice of kicking students out of school for minor misconduct. Unfortunately, after years of declining rates, new data in this update to the Lost Instruction Report -- released in Oct. 2023 — shows that school administrators are increasingly denying students who are homeless access to school.
New UCLA Brief Sheds Renewed Light on Immigration Enforcement’s Devastating Impacts on Latinx Students
A new collaborative research brief from UCLA’s Latino Policy and Politics Institute, Center for the Transformation of Schools, and Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles examines the harmful impact of immigration enforcement actions on Latinx children of undocumented immigrants. Building on a 2017-18 survey finding two-thirds of those surveyed reported a negative impact of immigration enforcement in their schools, this new research brief updates the analysis and spotlights the urgent need for comprehensive policy reforms that ensure the well-being of all students, regardless of their parents’ immigration status.
New Demographic Studies: Increasing Diversity of School-Age Population, Complexity of Native American Population Data Have Implications for Civil Rights
Demography, may not, as the famed French philosopher Auguste Comte once wrote, “be destiny,” but two new analyses, a demographic simulation of the school-age population of the United States and a projection of the racially-identified American Indian and Alaska Native population to 2050, make clear that rapid changes in the racial and ethnic composition of the population have and will continue to reshape the nation, with significant implications for education and the future of civil rights.
New CRP Research Examines Impact of Gentrification on Schools, Potential for Reducing Segregation
A new study, published today by The Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles, examines the growth of gentrification in California and its impact on schools and educational opportunities in the state.
New research details lost instruction time in CA schools, underscores disparate harm of post-pandemic punitive suspensions
Two groups of children with the most unstable home environments - foster youth and those experiencing homelessness - are the two groups that educators are most likely to send home by meting out punitive "out-of-school" suspension, according to this new research.
Next
               5
               items
           
           »
1
2
3
4
…
18
Document Actions
RSS feed
Print this
The Civil Rights Project / Proyecto Derechos Civiles
8370 Math Sciences, Box 951521
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1521
crp@ucla.edu
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Accessibility
Site Map
Log in
Copyright © 2010 UC Regents