Legal Developments — The Civil Rights Project at UCLA
Personal tools
Skip to content.
|
Skip to navigation
Search Site
only in current section
Advanced Search…
Sections
Home
News
Events
Research
Legal Developments
Resources
About Us
Navigation
Court Decisions
Legal Briefs
Legal Memos
Policy Papers
You
are here:
Home
→
Legal Developments
Info
Legal Developments
Legal Developments includes key policy decisions, court cases and legal memos impacting education and civil rights.
During CRP's initial years, much of our work
 focused on forging stronger links between national civil rights
 organizations, lawyers, academics and policymakers. More recently,
 we turned our attention to strengthening state and community racial
 justice efforts, and conducting state or locally-focused research
 towards that end.
It is at these levels where many key policy decisions
 are made regarding education, criminal and juvenile justice, electoral
 reform, and other matters. Officials at the district level often
 set policies regarding school discipline ("zero tolerance"),
 special education, and voluntary desegregation efforts, not the
 federal government in Washington, DC. State legislators, state school
 boards and state attorneys generally influence such policies as
 testing and accountability for failing schools, sentencing and parole
 practices, and juvenile justice procedures.
Federal programs such as the reauthorized
 Elementary and Secondary Education Act have widespread impacts at
 the state and local level, but in education and most other arenas
 there is a pattern of "cooperative federalism" which leaves
 countless important policy choices in the hands of state and local
 decisionmakers. With vacillating and often weak federal civil rights
 enforcement, there are significant burdens on state and local government
 to enforce guarantees of equal opportunity and freedom from discrimination.
 The challenges are especially daunting for state and local advocates,
 who often have severely limited resources.
Thus, it is increasingly important for these racial
 justice workers to make effective use of research and policy analysis,
 and to reach out more aggressively to the media, legislators, school
 leaders and other key players. Our initial work at this level has
 clearly illuminated the myriad of challenges we face. In many cases,
 "client" organizations or policymakers lack even basic
 familiarity with settled research findings, applicable legal doctrines,
 or fundamental policy debates. (They also often lack basic elements
 of organizational capacity.) Researchers and attorneys located within
 a region often feel unconnected with colleagues elsewhere in the
 country, but also are no better connected to each other and to local
 advocates than what we observe at the national level.
Document Actions
Print this
The Civil Rights Project / Proyecto Derechos Civiles
8370 Math Sciences, Box 951521
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1521
crp@ucla.edu
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Accessibility
Site Map
Log in
Copyright © 2010 UC Regents