News — The Civil Rights Project at UCLA
Personal tools
Skip to content.
|
Skip to navigation
Search Site
only in current section
Advanced Search…
Sections
Home
News
Events
Research
Legal Developments
Resources
About Us
Navigation
CRP Bulletin/Noticiero
Mailing List
Media Contact
Press Releases
You
are here:
Home
→
News
Info
News
This section includes press releases and statements about education and racial justice issues.
The Civil Rights Project (CRP) is a leading resource for information on racial justice. CRP strives to improve the channels through which research findings are translated and communicated to policymakers and the broader public by publishing reports and books on critical civil rights issues.
New Data show CA school administrators dramatically increased disciplinary exclusion of homeless youth to highest rate in 6 years
Research does not support the long-standing practice of kicking students out of school for minor misconduct. Unfortunately, after years of declining rates, new data in this update to the Lost Instruction Report -- released in Oct. 2023 — shows that school administrators are increasingly denying students who are homeless access to school.
New UCLA Brief Sheds Renewed Light on Immigration Enforcement’s Devastating Impacts on Latinx Students
A new collaborative research brief from UCLA’s Latino Policy and Politics Institute, Center for the Transformation of Schools, and Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles examines the harmful impact of immigration enforcement actions on Latinx children of undocumented immigrants. Building on a 2017-18 survey finding two-thirds of those surveyed reported a negative impact of immigration enforcement in their schools, this new research brief updates the analysis and spotlights the urgent need for comprehensive policy reforms that ensure the well-being of all students, regardless of their parents’ immigration status.
New Demographic Studies: Increasing Diversity of School-Age Population, Complexity of Native American Population Data Have Implications for Civil Rights
Demography, may not, as the famed French philosopher Auguste Comte once wrote, “be destiny,” but two new analyses, a demographic simulation of the school-age population of the United States and a projection of the racially-identified American Indian and Alaska Native population to 2050, make clear that rapid changes in the racial and ethnic composition of the population have and will continue to reshape the nation, with significant implications for education and the future of civil rights.
New CRP Research Examines Impact of Gentrification on Schools, Potential for Reducing Segregation
A new study, published today by The Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles, examines the growth of gentrification in California and its impact on schools and educational opportunities in the state.
New research details lost instruction time in CA schools, underscores disparate harm of post-pandemic punitive suspensions
Two groups of children with the most unstable home environments - foster youth and those experiencing homelessness - are the two groups that educators are most likely to send home by meting out punitive "out-of-school" suspension, according to this new research.
CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara Elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
The Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles congratulates CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara for her election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in recognition of her life's work pursuing equal educational opportunity on behalf of immigrant students and families.
New Civil Rights Project Research Urges Schools Do More to Address Racism
As conservative governors and legislatures across the nation seek to limit learning and discussion in schools about race and racial history, this new research published by the Civil Rights Project/ Proyecto Derechos Civiles, calls on schools, educators and policymakers to do just the opposite – challenging them to positively address racism and its impact on learning and opportunity.
New publication explores challenges of a rapidly emerging, multiracial  population for future civil rights law and policy
As the nation marks the civil rights milestone of the 60th anniversary of the March on Washington, a new research paper published by the UCLA Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles explores the rapid growth of a multiracial population in the United States, highlighting new challenges and possibilities for the future of the civil rights movement.
Statement on Today's Affirmative Action Ruling
Today’s ruling on affirmative action makes the Supreme Court’s majority the nation’s college admissions office and sharply reduces opportunities for students of color in the institutions that train America’s leaders. The decision is a major step backward toward a more rigidly stratified society where Black, Latino, and Native students face seriously unequal opportunities and American leadership will become more segregated.  It is a purely political decision, and one in which the Court has ignored legal precedent, research-based evidence, and the advice of leading civil rights groups.
Bilingual Education IS America's Future
New report synthesizes rigorous research to make the case for establishing bilingual education as the standard of instruction for students classified as English learners and outlines policies needed to achieve that standard. At a time of growing interest and grassroots support for bilingual education, the U.S. lags behind most other nations where bilingual education is the norm.
New Analysis Reconsiders the Role of College Admissions Testing
A new analysis by noted researcher in college admissions, Rebecca Zwick, examines the role of standardized testing in college admissions and raises questions about whether the concept of merit in admissions should continue to be dominated by test scores.
The Civil Rights Project Praises Today’s Supreme Court Voting Rights
CRP Co-director Gary Orfield issues a statement on today's 5-4 Supreme Court decision in the Allen v Milligan voting rights case upholding Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act.
New CRP Study Urges Expansion of CA's Community College BA Programs
Calling California Community College Baccalaureate (CCB) degree programs, “the best vehicle to transform who accesses and succeeds in California’s higher education and labor market,” the UCLA Civil Rights Project today released new research detailing the progress and potential of the CCC baccalaureate degree programs and arguing for their strategic expansion across the state.
CRP Codirector Orfield Elected as Fellow of AAAS
Gary Orfield, distinguished research professor of education, law, political science and urban planning at UCLA and the co-director of the UCLA Civil Rights Project, has been elected as a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
Feature article and Q&A spotlights new book, The Walls Around Opportunity
The Fall 2022 issue of the UCLA Ed&IS Magazine features an excellent article and Q&A with Gary Orfield, spotlighting his new book, The Walls Around Opportunity: The Failure of Color Blind Policy for Higher Education.
Join Us: Tuesday, September 13 at UCLA or Virtually
Don't miss the book launch of The Walls Around Opportunity:  The Failure of Color Blind Policy for Higher Education!  For many young people, racial inequality puts them at a disadvantage from early childhood. The Walls around Opportunity argues that colorblind policies have made college inaccessible to a large share of students of color and reveals how policies that acknowledge racial inequalities and set racial equality goals can succeed where colorblindness has failed.
New Report: Higher rates of school suspension and larger racial disparities easily escapes attention
Limited data collection and analysis during the 2019-2020 pandemic-shortened school year masked the fact that many school districts in California were on course for substantially higher rates of school suspension and larger racial disparities among those suspended, had in-person education continued for the full year, according to a new study released today by the Center for Civil Rights Remedies at the UCLA Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles.
Report Shows School Segregation in New York Remains Worst in Nation
A new report from the Civil Rights Project finds that New York retains its place as the most segregated state for black students, and second most segregated for Latino students, trailing only California. The report also makes clear that New York is experiencing an acceleration of demographic changes outlined in the earlier 2014 report. White students are no longer the state’s majority group as they were in 2010.  the proportion of Asian students increasing sharply to more than 17% in 2018, and Latino students becoming the largest racial/ethnic group, from 35% in 1990 to 41% in 2018. Conversely, there has been a significant decline in the black student population.  The new research also examines the expansion of school choice and charter schools and how they may have contributed to the continued segregation of the city’s schools. The research underscores that many in New York City are engaged in important efforts to integrate schools and there are a significant number of schools showing signs of reduced segregation.
National Analysis Details Troubling Levels of  Pre-existing Education Inequities for Students with Disabilities
New Research, "Disabling Inequity: The Urgent Need for Race Conscious Remedies," highlights the  inequitable conditions of learning faced by students with disabilities and the lack of awareness and action that threatens to only deepen the disparate impact that the Pandemic has had on children of color with disabilities. Without an infusion of sustained funds to address the mental and behavioral health of students, to improve school climate, and to reduce the reliance on harsh and often inappropriate discipline, districts will continue to inadequately meet the needs of these students.
Black Segregation Matters: New report Details Status of Black Students – Urges Incoming Biden Administration to act to confront pervasive segregation
Providing an update on the current status of the nation’s Black students, this new report makes clear that the segregation of Black students has increased in almost every region of the nation.
Next
               20
               items
           
           »
1
2
3
4
…
9
Document Actions
RSS feed
Print this
The Civil Rights Project / Proyecto Derechos Civiles
8370 Math Sciences, Box 951521
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1521
crp@ucla.edu
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Accessibility
Site Map
Log in
Copyright © 2010 UC Regents