News Collection — The Civil Rights Project at UCLA
Personal tools
Skip to content.
|
Skip to navigation
Search Site
only in current section
Advanced Search…
Sections
Home
News
Events
Research
Legal Developments
Resources
About Us
Support Our Research
Donate to the Civil Rights Project.
Quick Links
Contact Us
Mailing List Sign-up
Media Coverage of CRP
Center for Civil Rights Remedies
Project SOL 2.0
Follow us...
Facebook
YouTube
Twitter
Spotlight on...
The School Voucher Illusion:  Exposing the Pretense of Equity
, edited by Kevin Welner, Gary Orfield and Luis A. Huerta, is available from Teachers College Press.
You
are here:
Home
→
News Collection
Info
News Collection
News Collection for front page news items.
CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara Elected to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences
The Civil Rights Project/Proyecto Derechos Civiles congratulates CRP Co-Director Patricia Gándara for her election to the American Academy of Arts and Sciences, in recognition of her life's work pursuing equal educational opportunity on behalf of immigrant students and families.
Statement on Today's Affirmative Action Ruling
Today’s ruling on affirmative action makes the Supreme Court’s majority the nation’s college admissions office and sharply reduces opportunities for students of color in the institutions that train America’s leaders. The decision is a major step backward toward a more rigidly stratified society where Black, Latino, and Native students face seriously unequal opportunities and American leadership will become more segregated.  It is a purely political decision, and one in which the Court has ignored legal precedent, research-based evidence, and the advice of leading civil rights groups.
The Civil Rights Project Praises Today’s Supreme Court Voting Rights
CRP Co-director Gary Orfield issues a statement on today's 5-4 Supreme Court decision in the Allen v Milligan voting rights case upholding Section 2 of the Voting Rights Act.
CRP Codirector Orfield Elected as Fellow of AAAS
Gary Orfield, distinguished research professor of education, law, political science and urban planning at UCLA and the co-director of the UCLA Civil Rights Project, has been elected as a Fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS).
Feature article and Q&A spotlights new book, The Walls Around Opportunity
The Fall 2022 issue of the UCLA Ed&IS Magazine features an excellent article and Q&A with Gary Orfield, spotlighting his new book, The Walls Around Opportunity: The Failure of Color Blind Policy for Higher Education.
Next
               5
               items
           
           »
1
2
3
4
…
16
Document Actions
RSS feed
Print this
The Civil Rights Project / Proyecto Derechos Civiles
8370 Math Sciences, Box 951521
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1521
crp@ucla.edu
Contact Us
Copyright Policy
Accessibility
Site Map
Log in
Copyright © 2010 UC Regents