About Us | Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology
Skip to main content
University of California, Los Angeles
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Search
About Us
The Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology (DMMP) is a combined basic science and clinical department. The DMMP integrates mathematics, engineering, physical, biological and medical sciences to achieve together advances that we cannot achieve individually in three overall areas: (1) understanding biology of disease, (2) developing new molecular diagnostics and (3) developing new molecular and cellular therapeutics.
The DMMP offers an opportunity for students, postdocs, medical fellows, and basic and clinical faculty to explore together the molecular and biological mechanisms that regulate cellular and organ functions to (1) identify and understand molecular errors of disease, (2) develop means to diagnose and monitor disease, and (3) develop pharmacological means to correct these errors. The
Crump Institute for Molecular Imaging (CIMI)
was established by DMMP faculty. As an Organized Research Unit housed in the California NanoSystems Institute, the CIMI is a collaborative center where creative innovations and technology development in systems biology, microfluidics, nanotechnology, and molecular imaging are advancing discoveries and translating to improvement in the diagnosis and treatment of human disease.  Within the DMMP, the
Ahmanson Translational Imaging Division (ATID)
has both Nuclear Medicine and PET imaging research and clinical services.  Trainees have access to state-of-the-art science and technology to directly impact patient care.
Crump Institute for Molecular Imaging
The Crump Institute for Molecular Imaging
in the Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology brings together faculty, students, and staff with a variety of backgrounds – physics, mathematics, engineering, biology, chemistry, and medicine – to pursue innovative technologies and science to accelerate our understanding of biology and medicine. Trailblazing technology programs, linked by systems biology, microfluidics, nanotechnology, and molecular imaging, provide the tools to conduct integrated science in a unique, interdisciplinary setting. The faculty, students and staff of the Crump Institute have established a rich history of invention and commercialization with long lasting outcomes in setting worldwide academic and commercial standards through the invention of novel technologies, such as the microPET.
The Crump Institute’s ultimate objective is to provide biomedicine with new science and technologies to describe, assess, and measure biological function across states from health, through the earliest abnormalities, to frank disease. The new tools and knowledge we generate will accelerate the development of targeted therapies central to the new era of molecular medicine.
Ahmanson Translational Imaging Division
The
Ahmanson Translational Imaging Division
is part of the UCLA department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology. The goal of the division is to address clinical needs by understanding the biology of diseases, and developing diagnostic tools and therapeutics to improve the outcome of patients. The Division faculty, students, postdoctoral fellows and research staff are engaged in imaging research and education, and clinical service in the molecular imaging diagnostics of the biology of disease within the Nuclear Medicine clinical service with conventional and PET/CT imaging.
The DMMP is home to the
Molecular and Medical Pharmacology Ph.D program
,
Crump Institute for Molecular Imaging
, and
Ahmanson Translational Imaging Division
, containing PET and Nuclear Medicine imaging research and clinical service.
Department of Molecular and Medical Pharmacology
650 Charles E. Young Dr. South
23-120 Center for Health Sciences
Los Angeles, CA 90095-1735
Box: 951735
Mailcode: 173517
Email:
pharmacology@mednet.ucla.edu
Fax:
(310) 825-6267
Useful Links
Campus Directory
Campus Map
UCLA Events Calendar
David Geffen School of Medicine
Department
Ahmanson Biomedical Cyclotron
Ahmanson Translational Theranostics Division
Crump Institute
Crump Pre-Clinical Imaging Facilities
UCLA Metabolomics Center
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login