Newsroom | CBE
Select Page
Search for:
X
Unlocking the Potential of Lithium-Sulfur Batteries: Catalytic Breakthroughs for Enhanced Energy Storage
Growing demand for high-capacity batteries has led to extensive exploration of Lithium-Sulfur (LiS) battery technology. While the theoretical potential of LiS batteries is substantial, practical...
Read More
Carlos Morales-Guio receives NSF CAREER Award
Jan 10, 2024
Carlos Morales-Guio, an assistant professor of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering at the UCLA Samueli School of Engineering, has received a CAREER award from the National Science Foundation, the agency’s highest honor for faculty members in the early stages of their teaching and research careers.
Yuzhang Li Receives Packard Fellowship in Science and Engineering
Oct 16, 2023
Department of Energy Continues Commitment to Smart Manufacturing Innovation by Renewing UCLA’s Clean Energy Smart Manufacturing Innovation Institute
Sep 21, 2023
UCLA Alumna Continues Mom’s Legacy in Chemical Engineering with Career in Biotech Development
Sep 21, 2023
“UCLA prepared me for my professional career through exposure to a broad network of industry connections,” Huestis said of her experience as a Bruin.
Smart Manufacturing Symposium
Sep 6, 2023
CESMII’s Smart Manufacturing Innovation Center (SMIC) at UCLA will host a Smart Manufacturing Symposium at Mong Auditorium on Friday September 29.  The UCLA SMIC is focused on development of predictive technologies for application in SM, and pressure testing CESMII’s...
Jane Chang Selected as Harvard Radcliffe Institute 2023-2024 Fellow
May 16, 2023
Jane P. Chang, Professor of UCLA, was named a member of Harvard Radcliffe Institute’s 2023–2024 class of fellows, a cohort whose projects contend with the urgent, the beautiful, and the vast: from reckoning with the challenges of climate change to creating digital...
Carissa Eisler receives NSF CAREER Award
Jan 31, 2023
UCLA Chemical Engineer Receives NSF CAREER Award for Improving Efficiency of LEDs and Solar Cells.
Yuzhang Li has been awarded the DOE Early Career
Jun 24, 2022
We are proud to announce that Yuzhang Li is the first UCLA School of Engineering faculty member to be awarded the DOE Early Career award for FY 2022. His research will be utilizing the cryo-EM facilities at CNSI, please read the article below for more information....
Nine Department faculty among world’s most highly cited researchers
Jun 24, 2022
Nine Department faculty were included in a recently-published list of the most highly cited researchers in the world in various fields of Engineering and Science. Specifically, the list compiled by Research.com includes Nasim Annabi (Materials Science), Panagiotis...
X
©
Copyright 2024 UCLA Samueli School Of Engineering
Contact Us
Accessibility
Terms of Use
Safety First
UCLA