Ficus
The Ficus project developed peer-to-peer
optimistic file
replication systems that allow far richer methods of data-sharing than
were previously possible. By keeping multiple full-function copies of
data,
the Ficus file system gives its users: 1) quicker access to files that
would otherwise be stored remotely, 2) the ability to continue working
despite machine failures, and 3) the opportunity to set up easy,
cooperative
data-sharing between users at distant sites.
The figure above illustrates three uses of the
Ficus system.
For example, by using Ficus to share files between a home machine and
the
Internet, users can work more efficiently by keeping copies of
important
data both at home and at the work place. Occasional phone calls
propagate
changes from the home machine to the office machines on the Internet,
and
vice versa. Ficus also permits users at distant locations, such as Los
Angeles and Guam, to work cooperatively. Each location has its own copy
of the files, and Ficus ensures that updates to any copy are propagated
to all copies. Additonally, Ficus offers support for portable machines.
Users of portable computers can store, on their machines, copies of the
files they normally use in the office. This provides an opportunity to
work while traveling.
Ficus's use of optimistic replication allows
updates to
be applied by users whenever they access a copy of the file.
Non-optimistic
systems refuse updates under certain circumstances. The peer-to-peer
nature
of Ficus permits flexible sharing of data updates.
Ficus was built using a method of extending
file system
functionality called
stackable layers
. The stackable layers
technology
developed as part of the Ficus project permits easy extensions to file
system functionality. Instead of altering existing file system source
code,
new modules providing just the desired new services are added to the
existing
operating system. This technology not only permitted easier development
of Ficus, but it is also used to add encryption, data compression, and
other new and useful functionality to file systems.
The Ficus system was developed during the
period 1991 to 1996 under DARPA
contract N00174-91-C-0107.
Date:
12 July 2005
Technical Contact:
Peter Reiher
(reiher@cs.ucla.edu)