BSRB/COVID-19 Links and Info – Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA
Close
Login
BSRB/COVID-19 Links and Info
Reserve Equipment/Facility
Go to the first link to access your admin profile, then once you set up new users you can send them their login information and the second hyperlink.
For admins: http://uclaplathcore.bookmylab.com/admin/login.php
For users: http://uclaplathcore.bookmylab.com
Quick Guide:
To create/edit Users:
As admin, you can create an unlimited number of new users under the “People” tab in the top panel. Click-> “People” -> “Users”-> “Add new”. Under “Account Code 1”, select project code 1 for setup.
To create/edit Instruments & Rules:
As admin you can add instruments/resources (from under the “Core Setup” tab on the top panel) and set various booking rules as well.
To create/edit schedules:
Create schedules for any user by using either the online calendar display (Calendar Tab), or by using the options under the “Schedules” tab on the top panel
To create/edit cyclic unavailability or maintenance time:
Admins can add/edit/delete recurring periods of maintenance/unavailability for a specific resource by going to the “Weekly availability” option under the “Core Setup” in the top panel.
Reserve BCIF
Please log into the BCIF profile via calendar.google.com to schedule.
Username: uclabcif@gmail.com
Password: BCIF344C
Under the options section at the bottom right, select “Settings and sharing”, then scroll down to the “Share with specific people” section to add your own Gmail address in so you can view the calendar through your own Gmail account. Please feel free to email me if you need any assistance adding the BCIF calendar to your own google account.
Reserve BSRB 383 Conference Room
For people with disability, vulnerable individuals, and those working after 5 pm or on weekends, you may reserve the conference rooms for eating in isolation (people who quarantine together may use the same conference room). Please limit the reservations to 20 minutes per meal and clean your meal area after you are done.
Email the following information to Kristen Lorico at
klorico@mednet.ucla.edu
Ramp-Up Reporting Form
Resources
Consignment Stockroom
Biological Chemistry Imaging Facility
Fluorescent Microscope Facility
Graduate Programs in Bioscience (GPB)
Biological Chemistry Courses
Travel & Entertainment Reimbursement
Safety
UCLA Lab Book
UCLA School of Medicine Safety
Department Safety Materials
EH&S
SDS List
On Site Supply List
JSA Master List
Useful Links
Campus calendar
Campus directory
Campus map
David Geffen School of Medicine
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Department of Biological Chemistry
615 Charles E Young Drive South
310 BSRB
P.O. Box 951737
Los Angeles, California 90095-1737
Phone: 310-825-6783
Office hours: Monday-Friday: 8am-5pm, Saturday-Sunday: closed
© 2024 Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA. All Rights Reserved. |
admin login
site by
Pendari
You can login using your social profile
Install social plugin that has it's own SHORTCODE and add it to Theme Options - Socials - 'Login via Social network' field. We recommend: Wordpress Social Login
or
Forgot password?
Remember me