Medical and Dental Education – Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA
Close
Login
Medical and Dental Education
Our department is responsible for teaching various topics in biochemistry to first year medical students and first year dental students.
In the first year, we teach Human Biology and Disease (HB&D 401) jointly with other departments in the David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA. The block-based curriculum for years one and two has been designed to increase integration of normal human biology with disease processes and clinical skills from the first week of medical school onward. Basic science is taught in the context of its application with planned reiteration. Instruction is coordinated throughout sequentially-taught blocks. In year one, there are five blocks (most are eight weeks) separated by discipline and systems. Our faculty present lectures in block 1 (Foundations of Medicine I, HBD 401) and block 3 (Gastrointestinal, Endocrine, and Reproductive Medicine I, HBD 403). Our faculty members also participate extensively in the lab course and Problem Based Learning (PBL) seminars associated with blocks one, three, and seven.
Faculty Members also participate in teaching in the School of Dentistry. In 2008 the School of Dentistry began utilizing a block-based curriculum. Our faculty present lectures and serve as co-chairs in Foundations of Basic Science and Oral and Systemic Disease 2 courses.
Resources
Consignment Stockroom
Biological Chemistry Imaging Facility
Fluorescent Microscope Facility
Graduate Programs in Bioscience (GPB)
Biological Chemistry Courses
Travel & Entertainment Reimbursement
Safety
UCLA Lab Book
UCLA School of Medicine Safety
Department Safety Materials
EH&S
SDS List
On Site Supply List
JSA Master List
Useful Links
Campus calendar
Campus directory
Campus map
David Geffen School of Medicine
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Department of Biological Chemistry
615 Charles E Young Drive South
310 BSRB
P.O. Box 951737
Los Angeles, California 90095-1737
Phone: 310-825-6783
Office hours: Monday-Friday: 8am-5pm, Saturday-Sunday: closed
© 2024 Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA. All Rights Reserved. |
admin login
site by
Pendari
You can login using your social profile
Install social plugin that has it's own SHORTCODE and add it to Theme Options - Socials - 'Login via Social network' field. We recommend: Wordpress Social Login
or
Forgot password?
Remember me