Ph.D. Program – Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA
Close
Login
Ph.D. Program
Admission to the Program
The Department no longer maintains its own PhD Program. Those students entering laboratories of faculty in the Department are admitted through one of 11 different PhD Programs that constitute the new Graduate Programs in the Biosciences (GPB). The majority of Departmental faculty are members of one or more home areas within the
Molecular Biology Institute Interdepartmental Graduate Program (MBIDP)
. These home areas include
Gene Regulation
;
Biochemistry, Biophysics and Structural Biology
;
Cell and Developmental Biology
; and
Immunity, Microbes and Molecular Pathogenesis
. Some Faculty are members of
Human Genetics
and the
Neuroscience Interdepartmental Program
. Students interested in Departmental of Biological labs can apply to these home areas through the
GPB website
. Students who join through those programs will train in courses and programs associated with their specific home area. MSTP students entering through the David Geffen School of Medicine must join a GPB home area and will be subject to requirements of that Program as modified by agreements between the MSTP program and the home area.
Additional Requirements
Student who join Biological Chemistry labs are still required to participate in the department’s regular training activities including,
Required attendance at Department retreat, years 2-4. Required presentation (poster/talk) at retreat in years 3 and 4.
Required attendance and presentation in the weekly Biological Chemistry Intramural Seminars.
Students should also participate in the preparation and discussion sessions for the Biological Chemistry Distinguished Lecture Series.
Teaching Experience – For all GPB home areas that BC faculty participate in, students are required to act as teaching assistants for a total of two quarters in their 2nd-4th years. Students accepted through GPB must teach at least once in a science department of the College of Letters and Science. The area chosen for the second teaching obligation depends on student interest but BC students are advised to TA once in the Medical School lab course run by Professor Eryn Ujita Lee. This gives graduate students exposure to clinical lab techniques and opportunities for interactions with medical students. The lab course meets for approximately 50-60 hours total over two quarters.
Resources
Consignment Stockroom
Biological Chemistry Imaging Facility
Fluorescent Microscope Facility
Graduate Programs in Bioscience (GPB)
Biological Chemistry Courses
Travel & Entertainment Reimbursement
Safety
UCLA Lab Book
UCLA School of Medicine Safety
Department Safety Materials
EH&S
SDS List
On Site Supply List
JSA Master List
Useful Links
Campus calendar
Campus directory
Campus map
David Geffen School of Medicine
David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA
Department of Biological Chemistry
615 Charles E Young Drive South
310 BSRB
P.O. Box 951737
Los Angeles, California 90095-1737
Phone: 310-825-6783
Office hours: Monday-Friday: 8am-5pm, Saturday-Sunday: closed
© 2024 Department of Biological Chemistry, UCLA. All Rights Reserved. |
admin login
site by
Pendari
You can login using your social profile
Install social plugin that has it's own SHORTCODE and add it to Theme Options - Socials - 'Login via Social network' field. We recommend: Wordpress Social Login
or
Forgot password?
Remember me