How to Report | UCLA Student Health
Skip to Main Content
Search Website
Search
Search Website
Search
How to Report
If you have experienced sexual harassment, please report it. To speak with a Title IX officer, please call (310) 206-3417 .
Reporting Sexual Misconduct
How to Make a Report of Sexual Harassment and Notice of Nondiscrimination
The University of California and UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center are committed to the principle of treating each community member with respect and dignity.
University of California Notice of Nondiscrimination
Across all of its locations, including clinical settings, the University prohibits discrimination and harassment (including sexual assault and other forms of sexual harassment). UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center provides equal opportunities for all patients, applicants, employees, faculty, and students regardless of sex, gender identity or expression, sexual orientation, or other legally protected characteristics. For more on the University’s commitment to integrity, accountability and respect for all members of our community, please see the University’s Statement of Ethical Values and Standards of Ethical Conduct at
https://www.compliance.ucla.edu/statement-of-ethical-values
.
UCLA Patients and Students - How to Report
If you have experienced sexual harassment, please report it. To speak with a Title IX officer, please call
(310) 206-3417
. You may also
submit an online report
.
The UCLA Title IX Office tries to protect people’s privacy, while also fulfilling its obligations to respond appropriately to all reports it receives. In some situations, certain laws and University policies may require disclosure of reports to others, such as other University officials, licensing boards, law enforcement, or other agencies. If you are unsure if you want to file a report, we recommend contacting one of the following confidential resources first for advice and support:
CARE Advocate- Advocacy Office for Sexual and Gender Based Violence and Misconduct
CARE Advocates are available to support and advocate for UCLA student survivors of sexual violence or sexual harassment. They can assist in finding resources and navigating reporting options. You can get help from a CARE Advocate without formally reporting sexual violence.
Murphy A Level, Room 233 |
310-206-2465
|
CAREadvocate@careprogram.ucla.edu
https://www.careprogram.ucla.edu/
CAPS (Counseling and Psychological Services)
For emotional support, or individual or group counseling.
John Wooden Center West |
310-825-0768
(24/7) |
https://www.counseling.ucla.edu/
Office Hours: Mon-Thurs, 8am-8pm; Fri 9am-5
Rape Treatment Center, Santa Monica
Free medical treatment, preventive health care and counseling available 24/7.
A sexual assault survivor has the option of a Sexual Assault Forensic Exam (SAFE) (commonly referred to as “rape exam”) without filing a police report. This is referred to as a Non-Investigative Report (NIR). UCPD will provide free and confidential transportation to the RTC.
1250 Sixteenth Street, Santa Monica CA 90404 |
424-259-6000
|
www.rapetreatmentcenter.org
Student Legal Services
Confidential legal counseling and assistance
A239 Murphy Hall |
310-825-9894
|
slegal@saonet.ucla.edu
|
www.studentlegal.ucla.edu
These offices are not required to report instances of sexual harassment to the University.
The University reviews all reports of sexual harassment in accordance with the
University’s Sexual Violence and Sexual Harassment Policy
and other applicable policies.
UCLA Workforce - How to Report
UCLA provides
resources to faculty and staff
who want to report sexual misconduct or seek help for themselves or others.
As an institution, we are all responsible for creating and maintaining the safe, supportive and respectful environment our patients and colleagues expect and deserve. All members of the UCLA community are urged to immediately report information regarding possible sexual misconduct directly to the Title IX office or anonymously to the compliance hotline. More information about
your responsibility to report sexual misconduct as a member of the UC community
.
Title IX:
Phone:
(310) 206-3417
Email:
TitleIX@conet.ucla.edu
Public Incident Report Form
(you may submit an anonymous report through this form)
Compliance Hotline:
(800) 403-4744
To Provide General Feedback about your Patient Care Experience
UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center is interested in hearing about your overall care experience. To provide general feedback about your visit or experience with a UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center provider, or to communicate any complaint about unprofessional conduct, please
submit feedback here
.
To Obtain Your Medical Records
You may obtain a copy of your medical records in person or by mail. For detailed instructions, visit the UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center
Medical Records page
.
For Hearing and Visual Access Assistance
We provide free aids and services to people with disabilities to communicate effectively with us, like qualified sign language interpreters and written information in other formats (large print, audio, accessible electronic formats, other formats). If you need these services, contact
UCLA Center for Accessible Education
,
(310) 825-1501
.
Reporting Obligations of UC Personnel
All University employees are responsible for creating and maintaining the safe, supportive and respectful environment that our patients and colleagues expect and deserve. Additionally, under some circumstances, UCLA Arthur Ashe Student Health and Wellness Center staff members are required by University policy to immediately report possible sexual harassment to the Title IX office. Even those who are not subject to a mandate are urged to immediately report information regarding possible sexual harassment directly to the Title IX office or anonymously to the compliance hotline. More information about your
responsibility to report sexual harassment as a member of the UC community
.
Patients
Additional methods to report sexual misconduct
The following University offices also accept reports of sexual misconduct:
UCLA Compliance Hotline:
(800) 403-4744
and
https://www.uclahealth.org/compliance/hotline
UCLA Police:
(310) 825-1491
and
https://www.police.ucla.edu/
If you would prefer to file a complaint with an outside agency instead of, or in addition to, a complaint with the University, you can file a civil rights complaint with any of the following:
Medical Board of California:
https://www.breeze.ca.gov/datamart/complaint.do?applicationId=1
(this site will allow you to file a complaint about any California-licensed physician or midwife)
California Department of Consumer Affairs:
https://www.dca.ca.gov/consumers/complaints/consumer.shtml
(this site will allow you to access the websites to file complaints about any health professional licensed in the State of California)
U.S. Department of Health and Human Services, Office for Civil Rights The Office for Civil Rights works to ensure equal access to education and through enforcement of civil right protections on the basis of race, color, national origin, sex discrimination, disability and age.
File a complaint electronically:
https://ocrportal.hhs.gov/ocr/portal/lobby.jsf
File a complaint by mail: U.S. Department of Health and Human Services 200 Independence Avenue, SW Room 509F, HHH Building Washington, D.C. 20201. Download the form here
http://www.hhs.gov/ocr/office/file/index.html
.
File a complaint by phone:
1-800-368-1019
, 800-537-7697 (TDD)
California Department of Public Health’s Center for Health Care Quality (CHCQ) The CHCQ Licensing and Certification Program at the California Department of Public Health has regulatory oversight of licensed and certified health care facilities and of certain types of health care professionals. CHCQ also investigates consumer complaints against the facilities and professionals within its purview.
File a complaint electronically:
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/programs/chcq/lcp/calhealthfind/Pages/Home.aspx
File a complaint by mail: Find the appropriate local office here
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/LCP/Pages/DistrictOffices.aspx
.
File a complaint by phone: Find the appropriate local office here
https://www.cdph.ca.gov/Programs/CHCQ/LCP/Pages/DistrictOffices.aspx
California Department of Fair Employment and Housing (DFEH) DFEH will investigate a failure by an employer to comply with sexual harassment prevention training and education requirements, and incidents of discrimination in employment, businesses and other services.
File a complaint electronically:
https://www.dfeh.ca.gov/
File a complaint by mail: 2218 Kausen Drive, Suite 100; Elk Grove, CA 95758
File a complaint by phone:
800-884-1684
(voice),
800-700-2320
(TTY) or California’s Relay Service at 711
Contact Ashe Center
221 Westwood Plaza
Los Angeles, CA 90095
310-825-4073
Fax: (310) 206-8012
Contact
Stay in the know
Facebook @uclastudenthealth
Instagram @uclaashecenter
LinkedIn @ucla-ashe-student-health-center
Sydney Health Mobile App