Research Help | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Research Help
We're here to help! Library staff can support your research journey with a variety of services, tools and resources.
Connect With Us!
help
Research Consultations
We can help at every stage of the research process. Schedule a consultation or stop by a help desk!
about
Find a Subject Specialist
Contact a librarian with expertise in your subject area for personalized research help and support.
help
Ask Us
Can't find what you are looking for? Find all the ways to get in touch with Library staff, including our 24/7 chat service.
Get Started
Not sure how to get your research started? The resources below will give you an introduction to research at UCLA.
default
Library Research Guides
Our research guides help users of all backgrounds discover resources by subject, course, format or topic.
default
Databases by Subject
Browse our recommended databases by discipline or subject.
help
Online Writing and Research Tutorials
Quick and practical research and writing tutorials, collaboratively designed by students at UCLA.
help
Cornerstone Research Workshops
Foundational research and management skills workshops, open to students at all levels.
default
Access Collections
Not sure where to begin? Start your research with some popular resources from UCLA Library.
Research Support
help
Data Services
The Data Science Center provides support in data, mapping and geographic information systems (GIS).
help
Scholarly Communication Services
Explore resources from UCLA Library to help you understand copyright, open access and other questions you may have about publishing your research.
help
Copyright, Data & Publishing
Receive expert assistance and information on topics such as copyright, open access, data management and curation and author rights.
More Information
Have Further Questions?
We're here to help. Chat with a librarian 24/7, schedule a research consultation or email us your quick questions.
Contact us
Contact us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use