Services for the General Public | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Services for the General Public
Learn about how to visit and access our spaces, collections and world-class resources.
We strive to open our collections, spaces, exhibitions and events to as many people as possible! The following are some of the many ways members of the public can visit and access the Library.
Access our Collections
View books and journals in the library's open stack collections, or borrow materials using a UCLA Library Card. Access our rich online collections while physically on campus. Users can log onto the campus wireless network using their personal laptops. Off-campus access to online collections is only available to current UCLA students, faculty and staff.
help
Library Cards
Looking to access UCLA Library's vast collections? Library cards are available to patrons both affiliated with and unaffiliated with the UC.
help
Wi-Fi Access
Learn how to connect to Wi-Fi in UCLA Library buildings and the rest of campus.
help
Library Special Collections Materials
Learn how to find and view special collections and archival materials, including requesting duplication and use in the classroom.
help
Document Delivery
Users who wish to obtain a scan from UCLA Library collection can utilize our document delivery service.
default
Access Collections
Not sure where to begin? Start your research with some popular resources from UCLA Library.
Visit
visit
Events & Exhibitions
Browse our upcoming events and workshops and explore our online exhibitions.
visit
Locations & Hours
We are one Library with many physical locations. See a specific location for hours, services and contact information.
default
Map of Campus Libraries
Find all campus library locations (PDF).
default
Directions and Visitor Parking
Campus maps, visitor parking instructions, directions to UCLA and more.
default
UCLA COVID-19 Guidelines
Stay up to date with the campus's COVID-19 requirements and recommendations.
Get Help
help
Ask Us
Can't find what you are looking for? Find all the ways to get in touch with Library staff, including our 24/7 chat service.
help
Research Help
We're here to help! Library staff can support your research journey with a variety of services, tools and resources.
help
Hire a Researcher
Looking for help on your research? Check out our options for hiring researchers from UCLA to help on non-UCLA affiliated projects.
More Information
Have Further Questions?
We're here to help. Chat with a librarian 24/7, schedule a research consultation or email us your quick questions.
Contact us
Contact us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use