Teaching Support | UCLA Library
Skip to main content
UCLA Home
Teaching Support
The Library provides a variety of services to assist instructors in inspiring student learning, research and success. Let us know how we can help you!
Classroom Instruction
help
Library Instruction
Request an instruction session or instructional consultation to support your students' research needs.
help
Teaching with Library Special Collections
We can work with you to create active engagement with LSC materials and embed primary source literacy into your curriculum.
default
Tour a Library Location
Click on the link below to access our service portal and submit a request for a guided tour of a library. Tours can also be scheduled by emailing us at RequestInstruction@library.ucla.edu.
about
Find a Subject Specialist
Contact a librarian with expertise in your subject area for personalized research help and support.
Teaching Resources
help
Library Teaching Toolkit
Check out the Library's resources for instructors who want to incorporate research and writing skills in their courses.
help
Course Reserves
Wondering how the Library can help provide access to your course materials? Check out our resources for students and instructors on how to request, manage and access course reserves.
help
Online Writing and Research Tutorials
Quick and practical research and writing tutorials, collaboratively designed by students at UCLA.
about
Affordable Course Materials Initiative (ACMI)
This UCLA Library initiative encourages instructors to use low-cost or free alternatives to expensive course materials and awards successful courses adopting these materials for the first time.
More Information
Have Further Questions?
We're here to help. Chat with a librarian 24/7, schedule a research consultation or email us your quick questions.
Contact us
Contact us
UCLA Library Home
Twitter
Facebook
Instagram
YouTube
Jobs at UCLA Library
Give Us Feedback
Stay updated
Subscribe to get the latest updates on what's happening
                    with UCLA Library.
Email Address
Subscribe
© 2024 Regents of the University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
Privacy & Terms of Use