MD Student Research | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
MD Student Research
A proud tradition training world-renowned physician-scientists
You will be given outstanding opportunities to contribute to scientific discovery and be exposed to our world-renowned faculty whose ever-evolving innovations and groundbreaking research inform scientific and medical thought around the globe.
Students can engage in exciting research projects for periods of time that could last a summer or a lifetime. The following describes the research opportunities available to David Geffen School of Medicine students over the course of their medical school years.
Articulated/Concurrent Degree Program
Including UCLA’s MD/PhD or Medical Scientist Training Program and a few dual degree programs such as MD/ MBA, MD/MPH, and MD/MPP. The length of an MD/PhD program is 8 years while adding a master’s degree to your MD makes it a 5-year program.
See programs
Research Electives
Up to 6 weeks of research electives either as part of a master’s program or as a standalone research project.
Learn more about elctives
Global Health Pathway
Mentorship and longitudinal support for global health and health disparities activities that leads to a “certificate of completion of the global health pathway.
See pathway
Options after Third Year
This could be an external summer opportunity or a year-long mentored research project. Options may include Doris Duke-Yale International Clinical Research Program or Medical Research Scholars Program with the NIH.
Review options
Opportunities at CTSI
CTSI offers a Summer Fellowship and Translational Science Fellowship to medical students as part of their TL1 program.
See the CTSI program
Medical Research Scholars Program at NIH
A year-long residential research immersion program at the NIH for medical students seeking careers as clinician-scientists.
Explore program
American Physician Scientist Association
An association dedicated to physician-scientists with great resources for training programs, advocacy, and networking.
Learn more about physician-scientists
A true appreciation for curiosity can’t be taught in a classroom. Our students and trainees develop it while working alongside mentors who possess decades of experience and numerous accolades but nevertheless demonstrate a fierce openness for exploring new possibilities and testing prior assumptions.
Shamar Jones, Advisor for MD Student Research and Scholarly Activities
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login