PhD Students and Postdoctoral Fellows | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
PhD Students and Postdoctoral Fellows
Find your home area or office for program specific resources
UCLA Graduate Programs in Bioscience
is a consortium of 10 home areas and their affiliated PhD programs, organized to provide the best possible research training and professional development for graduate students pursuing PhDs in the life and biomedical sciences.
Additionally, the
Office of Bioscience Postdoctoral Affairs
serves postdoctoral scholars in the David Geffen School of Medicine and biosciences-affiliated disciplines throughout UCLA - providing resources and training for bioscientists across many professional areas.
UCLA Graduate Programs in Bioscience
Office of Bioscience Postdoctoral Affairs
Research Training Funding
This page provides links to UCLA funding, external funding, and grant writing resources and supports for predoctoral and postdoctoral trainees at UCLA.
Explore funding options
PhD & Postdoctoral T32 Programs
Training Grants are funds awarded to an institution to train a cohort of researchers in a targeted research disciplinary area.
Learn more about training grant programs
UCLA Internal Funding Opportunities
Find funding opportunities from across the UCLA and UCLA Health Sciences ecosystem.
See opportunities
External Research Funding
External funding opportunities and databases for pre and postdoctoral research trainees.
Learn more
NIH Grants and Funding
Including a database for NIH biomedical research funding opportunities and grants.
Review database
Professional Development Resources for Biomedical and Life Sciences Postdocs
This page provides resources for the career planning, career development, and professional development needs of UCLA postdocs and PhD students.
Visit site
Career Coaching and Counseling
Residents and fellows interested in a career as a physician-scientist are encouraged to contact DGSOM’s Office of Physician-Scientist Career Development to schedule a 30-min counseling call to discuss their career plans and explore various options available to them. For office hours and appointments, please contact the Physician-Scientist Program.
Contact now
“Nothing can prepare future leaders for every challenge they’ll face while exploring the dynamic relationship between science, nature, and human health. We strive to instill in our research trainees and physician-scientists the kind of thirst for perpetual learning that will take them further in their careers than any one skill or degree.”
Lynn Talton, PhD, Director of Bioscience Postdoc Affairs (second from left)
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login