Residents and Fellows | UCLA Med School
Skip to main content
UCLA Health
Departments
Giving
Translate
Search
Main
Close
Search
Try looking up an academic program, research topic, or information about life at UCLA.
Search
Search
Quick Links
UCLA Health
Alumni
COVID-19 Information
Emergencies
Why Choose UCLA?
Patient Care
Visiting Campus
Residents and Fellows
Are you insatiably curious? Chase breakthroughs with us
Our future physician-scientists are among our community of strong residents and fellows. We offer programs and funding to attract the strongest research-oriented talent to UCLA and develop them to build competencies in clinical research, basic science research, and health service research.
Trailblazer Spotlight
DR. OLUJIMI AJIJOLA
Treating cardiac sudden death syndrome when every second counts.
Read the full story
Some of these programs are listed below and you can apply to them either during or before joining your program at UCLA.
STAR Program
A unique program for clinical fellowship and some residency applicants to receive mentored research training and/or a graduate degree (PhD, MPH or MS) in conjunction with their clinical training.
See the STAR program
Burroughs Wellcome Fund (BWF) Physician-Scientist Training Program
A 2-year add-on to a clinical fellowship program with a focus on basic science or translational basic science research to build a career bridge for aspiring physician-scientists who don’t have a PhD degree.
Learn more about BWF
UCLA National Clinician Scholars Program (NCSP)
A post-doctoral program for early-career physicians participating in an intensive, highly-customized, two-year program that places them in community settings to conduct priority research directly benefiting the health of Southern California residents.
Explore the NCSP program
Master of Public Health for Health Professionals
Advanced executive-style training in community health, health education, and health promotion for professionals including MDs who seek enhanced skills in program planning, implementation, and evaluation.
Learn About MPH Opportunity
Master of Science in Clinical Research
A 2-3 year program with two-track sin research/clinical trials and Biomedical Informatics.
Explore MS Opportunities
Additional resources to support your exploration and inquiry
Funding Opportunities
See currently active and competitive research training and programs grants in the
UCLA Biomedical and Life Sciences
See
external/NIH Programs
See JCCC member
fellowship funding
Mentorship and Counseling
Residents and fellows interested in a career as a physician-scientist are encouraged to contact DGSOM’s Office of Physician-Scientist Career Development.
For more information, please contact
mdscientistsprgm@mednet.ucla.edu
for office hours and appointments.
CTSI Programs and Services
Education and Training Programs
As part of CTSI’s TL1 program, residents and fellows may apply for postdoctoral training in Clinical Informatics or Health Policy & Management.
See more about CTSI’s TL1 program
ResearchGo
A platform with resources, expertise, and best practices for investigators, study staff, and partners/affiliates.
See more about ResearchGo
K and R Grant Tips and Resources
Grant writing workshops, tips, and resources for residents, fellows, and junior faculty members.
See more about Grant Tips and Resources
Research-Track Residencies
Dermatology (research track)
As part of UCLA STAR program, this 4-year residency is designed for MD/PhDs who would like to combine their dermatology training with a postdoctoral opportunity.
See more about Dermatology (research track)
Emergency Medicine (research track)
Our program is committed to providing the highest quality medical education by exposing trainees to a diverse and wide breadth of experiences.
See more about Emergency Medicine (research track)
Internal Medicine STAR-Physician Scientist Training Program (PSTP)
Our program goal is to support physician-scientists in accessing research experience during residency training to maintain their investigative skills.
See more about
STAR
and
STAR-PSTP
EyeSTAR
A 5-6 year program combining a 3-year clinical residency with a PhD or postdoctoral program to facilitate a transition to an academic career in ophthalmology.
See more about EyeSTAR
Pediatric Residency Physician-Scientist Program (PSP)
An opportunity to participate in a training pathway that will prepare up to 2 per year qualified candidates for an academic career in Pediatrics.
See more about PSP
Psychiatry (research track)
Primarily available to candidates with MD/PhD backgrounds (2 per year) and providing protected time for research during PGY-3 and 4.
See more →
Facebook
X
Instagram
YouTube
LinkedIn
Geffen Hall
885 Tiverton Drive
Los Angeles, CA 90095
Learn and Train
MD Students
Residents and Fellows
PhD Students
Postdoctoral Scholars
Continuing Education
Get Involved
Give To DGSOM
Work For UCLA Health
Volunteer for UCLA Health
Report Misconduct
Connect
Alumni
Emergency
Find an Affinity Group
UCLA Directory
Maps And Directions
Talk to Our Media Team
© 2024 Regents of University of California
Emergency
Accessibility
UCLA Privacy Policy
UCLA Health Privacy Notice
Login